 Chris, how are you?Good to see you, too, man.I think.Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
I'm excited. It's Iowa Caucus time. And Chris, I've seen this before. Once Iowans get into that decision-making pocket, none of the pollsters back East can tell you how it's going to turn out.I wish you could be out there with me. I have been campaigning the Iowa Caucus way. I've been to over 120 events and getting up on the chair, doing tow halls like this.And we're seeing larger and larger crowds. And the - the beauty of the people of Iowa is they're not intimidated by polls, they're not intimidated by pundits and they have this birthright, they feel, to upset the apple cart.And with only three of us in this Democratic primary, there's only one of us who can still upset the apple cart. Come on, Iowa, right?Yes, well, this - the - this is what I have to say. Look, I'm in this, Chris, to win this. I'm running for president of the United States. And the reason I'm running is this.Our country is facing big challenges. And we have deep divisions in our country. And we need a candidate who can actually pull us together, who can heal these divisions who can get things done. That's what I've done all my life. I'm not a divider. If I were, I would not have been able to accomplish the things we accomplished in a very troubled city or in our state through a recession.And that's what I believe the people of Iowa are looking for, a president who will move us forward, who will build on the good things that President Obama has done and actually take that job creation legacy and turn it into rising wages again for every American family.
That's what we need. And we need new leadership to do that and break through the gridlock of Washington.
Yes.
Well, look, I'm honored to be able to offer my candidacy in the company of Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders. If you look at our Democratic primary and the debates we've had, we're certainly doing a much better job of speaking to the goodness within our country rather than to fear and anger and loathing like we've hearfrom Republicans.Yes.
Is this Q&A time?Am I allowed to stand?
I’m not capable of doing Q&A in Iowa from a seat.
OK.
Well, look, let's talk about this. In 1999, our city of Baltimore had become the most violent, the most addicted and the most abandoned city in America. An when very few other people would step up who could bring us together and turn it around, I did.And that year, and for about the 12 years leading up to that point, we were burying over 300 young, poor, black men every single year. And, yes, black lives matter. And I told the people of my city look, we did not have to accept the reality of 24/7 drug dealer occupation over our poor neighborhood. When you call from a poor neighborhoofor a police service, they should respond the same way that they do in wealthier neighborhoods, black and white.There are a lot of things we got right. There were a lot of lives that we saved. I promise to improve how we police the police. We actually did start closing down open air drug markets.And in the course of my executive service both as mayor and as a governor, I never stop searching for the things that work so we can do more of them to save and redeem lives, and the things that don't work so that we can stop doing them. So we greatly increased drug treatment. We saved hundreds and hundreds of lives from overdose deaths.
We started tracking discourtesy, excessive force. I drove down use of fatal police-involved - fatal police-involved shootings to three of their four lowest years in Baltimore history.And as governor, I restored voting rights to 52,000 people. I repealed as a crime and decriminalized the possession of marijuana. I banned the box on people who are applying for state employment. And not the first time, not the second time, but the third time, by bringing people together, including a few Republican votes, I made my state the first state south of the Mason Dixon Line to repeal the death penalty in America.Look, it's hard to appreciate at the time. But one true story, and quickly, Chris...
There is a family of seven people, a mom, dad and five kids who in East Baltimore were firebombed in their sleep and killed by a drug dealer. And the reason? Because they were picking up the phone and calling 911 and asking for relief for their kids from this sort of 24/7 drug dealer occupation.Look, I think all of us have a responsibility. I know I feel a responsibility to constantly look for the things that work and the things that don't work. By the end of my time as governor we had driven down violent crime to a 30-year low. And we had also driven down our incarceration rate to a 20-year low. You can do both of them at the sam time by doing the things that work.Tell me your name again.Look, I think we need to build upon the good things that President Obama has done with the Affordable Care Act. But no program ever came into existence in a perfect condition. So we have to improve it. And one of the ways I think we need to improve it is by covering those high value sort of early out-of-pocket expenses that people are experiencing.
What I hear from a lot of folks all over Iowa is that maybe while their premiums have leveled off, they're paying more out-of-pocket, more - and their deductibles are higher. So we need to - we need to push the insurance companies to actually offer products that pay for those early, those first out-of-pocket expenses.But let me take you up to a slightly larger and higher level, and it is this. Look, we need to - we need to change what it is that we actually pay for, to put wellness at the center.In my own state we moved all 46 of our acute care hospitals out of fee-for-service and started paying them global payment for all of their Medicare and Medicaid patients. Why? Because the biggest driver of your high health insurance costs, and throughout our country, is the hospital costs at the center.And we told our hospitals that if you reduce avoidable hospital readmissions, you can share in those savings. And the New England Journal of Medicine did an article abo four weeks ago and said I'll be damned, it actually works.We can dial up wellness. We can reduce the expense here. And that's the future, I believe. And every state has a role to play in moving that way because clearly we're stil paying too much for health insurance.Our system's called an all-payer system. We have a rate-setting commission. And we're able to replace the institutional profitability. I mean, the hospitals aren't going bankrupt by any means, but we're able to put wellness at the center.And that's what we need to do as a country to bring down the high cost of health care.Well, it's still early, there are six days.
hank you. Great question.I have put forward a plan for debt-free college within the next five years. And as the one candidate among the three of us with 15 years of executive experience, we went four years in a row in my state without a penny's increase to college tuition. So you can check out my plan for that on my Web site, martinomalley.com.But you know what I believe is the biggest issue that I think you should be concerned about as a young person who has more time on this planet than I do? And that is climate change.Climate change is the greatest business opportunity to come to the United States in 100 years. And I am the first candidate in either party to put forward a plan to move us to a 100 percent clean electric energy grid by 2050, and create 5 million jobs along the way.And this is another one of those instances, Chris, where Iowa is pointing the way forward. Look at what you have already done in your state. Thirty to 35 percent of your energy now comes from clean Iowa wind, which wasn't there 15 years ago.And you employ 5,000 people in the new industry, and the great thing about those big component parts you see rumbling down the highway on I-80 is they're too darn big for it to make a whole lot of sense to import them from other countries.So you have to build them here.And it's a big - and it's a big differentiator among the three of us. I mean, we're all - we're all decent people, we all want to do the right thing for our planet, but there is a generational perspective here. And we're not going to get to 100 percent clean electric grid with an "all of the above" strategy, any more than we got to the moon with an "all of the above" strategy.It was an engineering challenge. And we are up top this as Americans. But incrementalism, half steps, splitting the loaf, that's not going to get us. And that's not what you generation wants. You want the straight truth and you want us to face our challenges fearlessly and make this new reality ours.Thank you.I have put forward in your state 15 strategic goals to move our country forward again, to rebuild the truth of the American dream to get wages to go up, to make college more affordable and debt-free within the next five years, cut drug overdoses in half in the next 10 years, gun deaths in half in the next 10 years.But one of the goals is to cut youth unemployment in half in the next three years. And I propose to do that by making national service a universal option for every kid in America, to serve their country in environmental restoration, or in public health, or in other avenues in addition to the military.And I believe that that will not only allow our kids to go to college in a more affordable way, giving them an increased Pell grant benefit, but I also know that it will do a great deal to tap that goodness within the next generation and bring it forward, bring their ethic forward.rLet me talk a little bit about veterans because another one of our - my strategic goals is full employment for the veterans of ours who come home from Iraq and AfghanistaWe do a very poor job of transitioning our veterans back to civilian life. And I have found, as a governor attacking this problem, that the key is employment. Talkingalkin to our veterans about employment.There is absolutely no hand-off between the Defense Department and Veterans Affairs, let alone our state departments of Veterans Affairs.And, in fact, on the DD-214, the discharge form that veterans fill out, there's not even a box on there for an email address. And a lot of our veterans become ghost people. We might catch up with them eventually at the hospital. We might catch up with them at a county jail.We're a better nation than this and we need to have a transition program so that none of our veterans slip through the cracks and we need to make the first goal so that we ca then get to the Post-Traumatic Stress issues, mental health and other things.The first goal needs to be for employment, because every person needs to be needed. And we need our veterans back here every bit as much as we needed them abroad.Sure. Yes. The - let me talk a little bit about our economy.Prior to President Obama's good work - and he's done great work. He saved us from a second Great Depression, from the recklessness and the greed on Wall Street. Our nation's creating jobs again and we're the only species on the planet without full employment, so jobs are important, right?Without jobs, nothing works very well.But here's another thing that doesn't work very well in America, unless it's going in the right direction, and that is wages.For the first time this side of World War II, 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we did 12 years ago. So as I look at this, I believe that we need to first and foremost remember that our economy is not money. It is people. It is all of our people.And we need to restore common sense wage and labor policies that make wages rise again. Things we used to do, Democrats and Republicans together all the time, like keeping the minimum wage above the poverty line, paying overtime pay for overtime work.How about this, the long deferred promise of equal pay for equal work for men and women?
Making it easier for people to join labor unions instead of harder. 
And here's another one to make wages go up instead of being a drag on wages, let's get 11 million of our neighbors out of the underground shadow economy by passing comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship for all.
Chris, and two other brief ones on this.I'm the first candidate in either party to put forward a new agenda for America's cities. America's cities are where we have some of the worst problems of structural unemployment and where we can do the most good with investments in mobility, mass transit, a new era of workforce housing, making our cities the leading edge to this clean green environment.And then the third piece I come back to again is squaring our shoulders to climate change and training people to actually be part of the retrofitting and the distributed energ future that is America's.You know, the - look, my story is not the story of the - of a Democratic conversion. My story is the story of a Democratic upbringing. And my parents taugh me that the stronger we make our country, the more our country can give back to ourselves and to our children.And so I believe in fair market American capitalism. And I also, as part of those 15 strategic goals, believe, as Woodrow Wilson believed, that freedom - economic freedom also means freedom from monopoly.
I would actually agree with Senator Sanders in this sense, Chris. We have reached the point where there's been such a concentration of corporate wealth an power in the hands of so few that it's taking opportunity out of the homes of the many. And whenever that happens, there's only two paths forward. And only one of them i good. And that is a sensible rebalancing based on the common good we share.We need to push back on these concentrations of corporate power, Wall Street, big banks, but other places, as well.
You know, here in Iowa, a farmer told me that 12 years ago they used to have about a dozen packing houses. Now, they only have four or five. Hog farmers are more productive than ever, but they're getting a lower price than ever.Our economy is an ecosystem, you know? And the center of that ecosystem is a stronger middle class. In other words, the stronger we make our middle class, the more our economy grows. And, that's what we've lose track of in these 30 years of trickle down economics. The more our workers earn, the more they spend, the more our economy grows.I will say this though, Chris, I think that I do believe that the fundamentals of American capitalism are still strong. But we need to shake ourselves out of this trickle down nonsense. This is concentrate wealth, remove regulation, and keep wages low. Low wages for America is not an America that's working. We need wage policies that make wages go up again.I believe that the genius of this American experiment of ours is that in every generation we take actions to include more people more fully in the economic, th social, and the political life our country. That's the broader arc of American history. We've yet to arrive at a perfect union, but every generation we have the opportunity to make it a more perfect union.In my own state we were one of the very first to pass at the ballot marriage equality. I also passed the Transgender Anti-Discrimination bill in the state of Maryland as well.
And, it's interesting, you know? The common ground we found to get these things done was this. It's really about our kids. It's about all our kids. And, there was some people in Maryland who said we might not be able to pass marriage equality, and we made the argument all about the truth, that there is dignity in every child's home, and every child's home needs to be protected equally under the law.One of the most powerful beliefs we share is our belief in the dignity of every person. That's what's motivated me, and the common good that we share. And, I will do everything in my power to move us forward as a nation, and make us more inclusive in every possible way I can across the board because that's what makes us stronger ascountry.
Thank you.Yeah, not good for family farms, is it?
Right?
Thank you. 
I think this is a big part of the future for rural America, sustainable economies. The ability to consume and to grow, and to do that within the footprint of this place that we call home. So, I would like to work with congress, and I plan to work with congress, to do more in the Farm Bill to reduce the barriers of entry to new farmer as they start up. Huge capital costs that go into buying the land and buying the equipment. But it's also what's best for keeping our rural economies, and it's best forAmerica. So I've seen in my own state a whole movement to the "buy local" movement and the sort of farming that you describe. We need to do more as a nation to encourage young farmers to go into farming to reduce those barriers and those capital costs, even at the same time that we push back against the concentration monopoly power in the agricultural sector. And that's what I intend to do.Thank you.
This sounds like a process question. Look, here's my suggestion to them.What I - I have put together a terrific organization, or we have put together a terrific organization all across this state, Chris. And one of the reasons why the polls back eas can never figure out how the caucuses work is because it's a very organic thing.And so my message to the O'Malley supporters across this state is this. Hold strong at your caucus.
Hold strong at your caucus because America's looking for a new leader. America's scanning the horizon. We cannot be this fed up with our gridlocked, dysfunctional national politics and think that a resort to old ideologies or old names is going to move us forward. So I tell my people hold strong.I know this is a tough fight. But I've always been drawn to a tough fight. I believe the toughness of the fight is the way the hidden god has of telling us we're actually fighting for something worth saving.Our country's worth saving. The American dream is worth saving. This planet is worth saving. America needs new leadership. And I need the O'Malley supporters out there on caucus night to hold strong and move forward like Iowa does.Thank you. This is what I would say. I would say that time and time again in the history of the state of Iowa, Iowa has found a way to sort through the nois and to sort through the national polls and to lift up a new leader for our country at times when that was critical and essential.That's what you did eight years ago when you lifted up Barack Obama to lead our country forward. And we need to build upon his good work by continuing to move forward.And that I am the only - I am the only one of the three of us who has a track record not of being a divider, but of bringing people together to get meaningful things done: raising the living wage, making college more affordable, creating jobs, healing wounds and divisions. That's what our country needs right now.We are a great people. We are a generous and we are a compassionate people. And we are far better than the sort of fascist rhetoric that you hear spewed out by Donald Trump. The enduring symbol of our country is not the barbed wire fence. It is the Statue of Liberty.
And so I'm not here to praise you, Iowa, I'm here to challenge you. Lift up a new leader, because you can change the course of this presidential race. You can shift this dynamic on caucus night. I know you can, I've seen you do it before.There is nothing so divided about our national politics that it cannot be healed with the renewed faith in one another and new leadership. That's what I have to offer. My candidacy is in your hands. Do with it as you will.But I think it's important in order to move our country forward that once again Iowa lift up a new leader so we that can make America the compassionate, generous, and inclusive place that we need it to be. Thanks.Thank you.
