
I cannot say. I have to respect the person that, if it’s not me, the person that wins, if I do win, and I’m leading by quite a bit, that’s what I want to do. I can totally make that pledge. If I’m the nominee, I will pledge I will not run as an independent. But — and I am discussing it with everybody, but I’m, you know, talking about a lot of leverage. We want to win, and we will win. But I want to win as the Republican. I want to run as the Republican nominee. Well, I’ve given him plenty of money.I will not make the pledge at this time. I think the big problem this country has is being politically correct. I’ve been challenged by so many people, and I don’t frankly have time for total political correctness. And to be honest with you, this country doesn’t have time either. This country is in big trouble. We don’t win anymore. We lose to China. We lose to Mexico both in trade and at the border. We lose to everybody. And frankly, what I say, and oftentimes it’s fun, it’s kidding. We have a good time. What I say is what I say. And honestly Megyn, if you don’t like it, I’m sorry. I’ve been very nice to you, although I could probably maybe not be, based on the way you have treated me. But I wouldn’t do that. Only Rosie O’Donnell. But you know what, we — we need strength, we need energy, we need quickness and we need brain in this country to turn it around. That, I can tell you right now. So, if it weren’t for me, you wouldn’t even be talking about illegal immigration, Chris. You wouldn’t even be talking about it. 
This was not a subject that was on anybody’s mind until I brought it up at my announcement. And I said, Mexico is sending. Except the reporters, because they’re a very dishonest lot, generally speaking, in the world of politics, they didn’t cover my statement the way I said it.The fact is, since then, many killings,murders, crime, drugs pouring across the border, are money going out and the drugs coming in. And I said we need to build a wall, and it has to be built quickly.And I don’t mind having a big beautiful door in that wall so that people can come into this country legally. But we need, Jeb, to build a wall, we need to keep illegals out.
Border Patrol, I was at the border last week. Border Patrol, people that I deal with, that I talk to, they say this is what’s happening. Because our leaders are stupid. Our politicians are stupid.And the Mexican government is much smarter, much sharper, much more cunning. And they send the bad ones over because they don’t want to pay for them. They don’t want to take care of them.Why should they when the stupid leaders of the United States will do it for them? And that’s what is happening whether you like it or not.
A complete disaster, yes.First of all, I’d like to just go back to one. In July of 2004, I came out strongly against the war with Iraq, because it was going to destabilize the Middle East. And I’m the only one on this stage that knew that and had the vision to say it. And that’s exactly what happened.And the Middle East became totally destabilized. So I just want to say.As far as single payer, it works in Canada. It works incredibly well in Scotland. It could have worked in a different age, which is the age you’re talking about here.What I’d like to see is a private system without the artificial lines around every state. I have a big company with thousands and thousands of employees. And if I’m negotiating in New York or in New Jersey or in California, I have like one bidder. Nobody can bid.You know why?Because the insurance companies are making a fortune because they have control of the politicians, of course, with the exception of the politicians on this stage.But they have total control of the politicians. They’re making a fortune.Get rid of the artificial lines and you will have yourself great plans. And then we have to take care of the people that can’t take care of themselves. And I will do that through a different system.I’m not — I’m not are — I don’t think you heard me. You’re having a hard time tonight. You’d better believe it.
If I ask them, if I need them, you know, most of the people on this stage I’ve given to, just so you understand, a lot of money.
Many of them.
Sounds good. Sounds good to me, Governor.I will tell you that our system is broken. I gave to many people, before this, before two months ago, I was a businessman. I give to everybody. When they call, I give.And do you know what?When I need something from them two years later, three years later, I call them, they are there for me.
And that’s a broken system.
Well, I’ll tell you what, with Hillary Clinton, I said be at my wedding and she came to my wedding.You know why?She didn’t have a choice because I gave. I gave to a foundation that, frankly, that foundation is supposed to do good. I didn’t know her money would be used on private jets going all over the world. It was.But...Because I have used the laws of this country just like the greatest people that you read about every day in business have used the laws of this country, the chapter laws, to do a great job for my company, for myself, for my employees, for my family, et cetera.I have never gone bankrupt, by the way. I have never. But out of hundreds of deals...
Excuse me, what am I saying? Out of hundreds of deals that I’ve done, hundreds, on four occasions I’ve taken advantage of the laws of this country, like other people. I’m not going to name their names because I’m not going to embarrass, but virtually every person that you read about on the front page of the business sections, they’ve used the law.The difference is, when somebody else uses those laws, nobody writes about it. When I use it, they say, “Trump, Trump, Trump.” The fact is, I built a net worth of more than $10 billion. I have a great, great company. I employ thousands of people. And I’m very proud of the job I did.Again Chris, hundreds and hundreds of deals. Four times, I’ve taken advantage of the laws. And frankly, so has everybody else in my position.Let me just tell you about the lenders. First of all, these lenders aren’t babies. These are total killers. These are not the nice, sweet little people that you think, OK?You know, I mean you’re living in a world of the make-believe, Chris, you want to know the truth.And I had the good sense to leave Atlantic City, which by the way, Caesars just went bankrupt. Every company, Chris can tell you, every company virtually in Atlantic City went bankrupt.Every company.And let me just tell you. I had the good sense, and I’ve gotten a lot of credit in the financial pages, seven years ago I left Atlantic City before it totally cratered, and I made a lot of money in Atlantic City, and I’m very proud of it. I want to tell you that. Very, very proud of it.
And by the way, this country right now owes $19 trillion. And they need somebody like me to straighten out that mess. don’t think they like me very much. I’ll tell you what. I’ve evolved on many issues over the years. And you know who else has? Is Ronald Reagan evolved on many issues.And I am pro-life. And if you look at the question, I was in business. They asked me a question as to pro-life or choice. And I said if you let it run, that I hate the concept of abortion. I hate the concept of abortion. And then since then, I’ve very much evolved.And what happened is friends of mine years ago were going to have a child, and it was going to be aborted. And it wasn’t aborted. And that child today is a total superstar, a great, great child. And I saw that. And I saw other instances.And I am very, very proud to say that I am pro-life.As far as being a Republican is concerned, I come from a place, New York City, which is virtually, I mean, it is almost exclusively Democrat. And I have really started to see some of the negatives — as an example, and I have a lot of liking for this man, but the last number of months of his brother’s administration were a catastrophe. And unfortunately, those few months gave us President Obama. And you can’t be happy about that.
First of all, Jeb, I am very happy that you denied that, and I appreciate that very much. He is a true gentleman. He really is.One thing he did say, and I mean that. The one thing he did say about me, however, was my tone. And I also understand that. But when you have people that are cutting Christians’ heads off, when you have a world that the border and at so many places, that it is medieval times, we’ve never — it almost has to be as bad as it ever was in terms of the violence and the horror, we don’t have time for tone. We have to go out and get the job done.I would be so different from what you have right now. Like, the polar opposite. We have a president who doesn’t have a clue. I would say he’s incompetent, but I don’t want to do that because that’s not nice. But if you look at the deals we make, whether it’s the nuclear deal with 24 hour periods — and by the way, before you get to the 24 hours, you have to go through a system. You look at Sergeant Bergdahl, we get Bergdahl, a traitor, and they get five of the big, great killers leaders that they want. We have people in Washington that don’t know what they’re doing. Now...
Now, with Iran, we’re making a deal, you would say, we want him. We want out our prisoners. We want all these things, and we don’t get anything. We’re giving them $150 billion dollars plus, they are going to be — I’ll tell you what, if Iran was a stock, you folks should go out and buy it right now because you’ll quadruple — this, what’s happening in Iran, is a disgrace, and it’s going to lead to destruction in large portions of the world.
I’m Donald Trump. I wrote “The Art of the Deal”. I say not in a braggadocious way, I’ve made billions and billions of dollars dealing with people all over the world, and I want to put whatever that talent is to work for this country so we have great trade deals, we make our country rich again, we make it great again. We build our military, we take care of our vets, we get rid of Obamacare, and we have a great life altogether.Thank you. Thank you.
Well, first of all, Rand Paul shouldn’t even be on this stage. He’s number 11, he’s got 1 percent in the polls, and how he got up here, there’s far too many people anyway.As far as temperament — and we all know that — as far as temperament, I think I have a great temperament. I built a phenomenal business with incredible, iconic assets, one of the really truly great real-estate businesses.And I may be an entertainer, because I’ve had tremendous success with number-one bestsellers all over the place, with “The Apprentice” and everything else I’ve done.But I will tell you this: What I am far and away greater than an entertainer is a businessman, and that’s the kind of mindset this country needs to bring it back, because we owe $19 trillion right now, $19 trillion, and you need this kind of thinking to bring our country back.And believe me, my temperament is very good, very calm. But we will be respected outside of this country. We are not respected now.
I never attacked him on his look, and believe me, there’s plenty of subject matter right there.That I can tell you.
In Wisconsin, you’re losing $2.2 billion right now.I’m using facts.
Every major business leader has used the — I never went bankrupt, by the way, as you know, everybody knows. But we — hundreds of companies, hundreds of deals, I’ve used.
Totally false.
I would have gotten it.
I promise I would have gotten it.
I promise if I wanted it, I would have gotten it.
I know my people.
I know my people.
No. I just will tell you that, you know, Jeb made the statement. I’m not only referring to him. I — a lot of money was raised by a lot of different people that are standing up here. And the donors, the special interests, the lobbyists have very strong power over these people.I’m spending all of my money, I’m not spending — I’m not getting any — I turned down — I turn down so much, I could have right now from special interests and donors, I could have double and triple what he’s got. I’ve turned it down. I turned down last week $5 million from somebody.So I will tell you I understand the game, I’ve been on the other side all of my life. And they have a lot of control over our politicians. And I don’t say that favorably, and I’m not sure if there’s another system, but I say this. I am not accepting any money from anybody. Nobody has control of me other than the people of this country. I’m going to do the right thing.
That’s true. That’s true.
I was — excuse me, Jeb.
I was a businessman, I got along with Clinton, I got along with everybody. That was my job, to get along with people.I didn’t want to — excuse me. One second.
OK, more energy tonight. I like that.
 didn’t want — it was my obligation as a businessman to my family, to my company, to my employees, to get along with all politicians. I get along with all of them, and I did a damn good job in doing it. Go ahead.Got along with everybody.Wrong.
Don’t make things up. Jeb, don’t make things up. Come on.
Don’t make things up.
So, number one, they have to respect you. He has absolutely no respect for President Obama. Zero.Syria’s a mess. You look at what’s going on with ISIS in there, now think of this: we’re fighting ISIS. ISIS wants to fight Syria. Why are we fighting ISIS in Syria? Let them fight each other and pick up the remnants.I would talk to him. I would get along with him. I believe — and I may be wrong, in which case I’d probably have to take a different path, but I would get along with a lot of the world leaders that this country is not getting along with.We don’t get along with China. We don’t get along with the heads of Mexico. We don’t get along with anybody, and yet, at the same time, they rip us left and right. They take advantage of us economically and every other way. We get along with nobody.I will get along — I think — with Putin, and I will get along with others, and we will have a much more stable — stable world.I believe that I will get along — we will do — between that, Ukraine, all of the other problems, we won’t have the kind of problems that our country has right now with Russia and many other nations. 
I think it will haunt him. I think it’s a terrible. I think it’s going to haunt him absolutely. He came back later and he said he misspoke. There was no question because I heard when he said the statement. I was watching and he said the statement.And I said, wow, I can’t believe it. I will take care of women. I respect women. I will take care of women.One thing we will say and I would like to get back to the Iran situation. We’re talking about Iran. The agreement was terrible. It was incompetent. I’ve never seen anything like it. One of the worst contracts of any kind I’ve ever seen.And nobody ever mentions North Korea where you have this maniac sitting there and he actually has nuclear weapons and somebody better start thinking about North Korea and perhaps a couple of other places. But certainly North Korea.And Ted and I have spoken. We’ve — a lot of us have spoken. We’re talking about Iran. They are bad actors, bad things are going to happen. But in the meantime, you have somebody right now in North Korea who has got nuclear weapons and who is saying almost every other week, I’m ready to use them. And we don’t even mention it.
So why didn’t you say it? Why didn’t you say it?
I know, but why did you say it? I heard it myself. Why did you say it?
You said you’re going to cut funding for women’s health. You said it.
You said it.I think she’s got a beautiful face, and I think she’s a beautiful woman.
Correct. First of all, I want to build a wall, a wall that works. So important, and it’s a big part of it.Second of all, we have a lot of really bad dudes in this country from outside, and I think Chris knows that, maybe as well as anybody.They go, if I get elected, first day they’re gone. Gangs all over the place. Chicago, Baltimore, no matter where you look.We have a country based on laws. I will make sure that those laws are adhered to. These are illegal immigrants. I don’t think you’d even be asking this question if I didn’t run because when I ran, and I brought this up, my opening remarks at Trump Tower, I took heat like nobody has taken heat in a long time. And, then they found out with the killing of Katie, from San Francisco, and so many other crimes, they found out that I was right.And, most people, many people, apologized to me. I don’t think you’d even be talking about illegal immigration if it weren’t for me. So, we have a country of laws, they’re going to go out, and they’ll come back if they deserve to come back. If they’ve had a bad record, if they’ve been arrested, if they’ve been in jail, they’re never coming back. We’re going to have a country again. Right now, we don’t have a country, we don’t have a border, and we’re going to do something about it, and it can be done with proper management, and it can be done with heart.
By the way, I agree with — with what Chris is saying, but, I will say this. Illegal immigration is costing us more than $200 billion dollars a year just to maintain what we have.Well, I have to tell you, I hear phenomenal things. I hear your wife is a lovely woman...I don’t know her, and this is a total mischaracterization...
No, I won’t do that, because I’ve said nothing wrong.
But I do hear she’s a lovely woman.
Jeb said that they come into our country as an act of love.With all of the problems we that we have, in so many instances — we have wonderful people coming in. But with all of the problems — this is not an act of love. He’s weak on immigration — by the way, in favor of Common Core, which is also a disaster, but weak on immigration.He doesn’t get my vote.Not with this intensity.
As I said, we are spending $200 billion — we are spending $200 billion a year on maintaining what we have. We will move them out. The great ones will come back, the good ones will come back.They’ll be expedited, they’ll be back, they’ll come back legally. We’ll have a country — they’ll come back, legally.Well, I think it’s wonderful and all, but I did it a little bit half-heartedly, but I do mean it to a large extent.We have a country, where, to assimilate, you have to speak English. And I think that where he was, and the way it came out didn’t sound right to me. We have to have assimilation — to have a country, we have to have assimilation.I’m not the first one to say this, Dana. We’ve had many people over the years, for many, many years, saying the same thing. This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish.
This is a reporter, not a high school kid.
Well, first of all, the — the 14th Amendment says very, very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars — not television scholars, but legal scholars — that it is wrong. It can be corrected with an act of Congress, probably doesn’t even need that.A woman gets pregnant. She’s nine months, she walks across the border, she has the baby in the United States, and we take care of the baby for 85 years. I don’t think so.And by the way, Mexico and almost every other country anywhere in the world doesn’t have that. We’re the only ones dumb enough, stupid enough to have it. And people — and by the way, this is not just with respect to Mexico. They are coming from Asia to have babies here, and all of a sudden, we have to take care of the babies for the life of the baby.The 14th Amendment, it reads properly, you can go and — it’s probably going to be have to be check — go through a process of court, probably ends up at the Supreme Court, but there are a lot of great legal scholars that say that is not correct.And in my opinion, it makes absolutely no — we’re the only — one of the only countries, we’re going to take care of those babies for 70, 75, 80, 90 years? I don’t think so.I agree 100 percent, by the way, with Carly on the fact that the Democrats do not want to solve this problem, for the obvious reasons, but they do not.But I believe that a reading of the 14th Amendment allows you to have an interpretation where this is not legal and where it can’t be done. I’ve seen both sides, but some of the greatest scholars agree with me, without having to go through Congress.If you do go through Congress, you can absolutely solve the problem. 
That’s true, sure.
— let me — well, let me just explain. The head of the Yale Business School, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, wrote a paper recently, one of the worst tenures for a CEO that he has ever seen, ranked one of the top 20 in the history of business. The company is a disaster and continues to be a disaster. They still haven’t recovered. In fact, today, on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, they fired another 25 or 30,000 people saying we still haven’t recovered from the catastrophe.When Carly says the revenues went up, that’s because she bought Compaq, it was a terrible deal, and it really led to the destruction of the company.Now one other company before that was Lucent. Carly was at Lucent before that. And Lucent turned out to be a catastrophe also. So I only say this. She can’t run any of my companies. That I can tell you.
I never filed for bankruptcy.
I’ll tell you why; it’s very simple.
I’ve made over $10 billion. I had a casino company — Caesars just filed for bankruptcy. Chris will tell you — it’s not Chris’ fault either — but almost everybody in Atlantic City is either in trouble or filed for — maybe I’ll blame Chris.
Wait a minute, Carly. Wait. I let you speak. Atlantic City is a disaster, and I did great in Atlantic City. I knew when to get out. My timing was great. And I got a lot of credit for it.Many of the great business people that you know — and Carl Icon (ph) is going to work with me on making great deals for this country. But whether it’s Carl or so many others that we read about all the time.
Well, I’d like to respond, I’d like to respond.
Well, I think the thing about the flat tax, I know it very well. What I don’t like is that if you make $200 million a year, you pay ten percent, you’re paying very little relatively to somebody that’s making $50,000 a year, and has to hire H&R Block to do the — because it’s so complicated.One thing I’ll say to Ben is that we’ve had a graduated tax system for many years, so it’s not a socialistic thing. What I’d like to do, and I’ll be putting in the plan in about two weeks, and I think people are going to like it, it’s a major reduction in taxes. It’s a major reduction for the middle class. The hedge fund guys won’t like me as much as they like me right now. I know them all, but they’ll pay more.I know people that are making a tremendous amount of money and paying virtually no tax, and I think it’s unfair.
Well, I heard Hugh Hewitt, a nice man, he apologized because he actually said that we had a misunderstanding. And he said today that Donald Trump is maybe the best interview there is anywhere that he has ever done.Now unless he was just saying that on CNN to be nice, but he did say that...And we had a legitimate misunderstanding in terms of his pronunciation of a word.But I would say just... Well, I think it was. And he actually said that. Did you say that? OK. So I will say this, though, Hugh was giving me name after name, Arab name, Arab name, and there are few people anywhere, anywhere that would have known those names. I think he was reading them off a sheet.And frankly I will have — and I told him, I will have the finest team that anybody has put together and we will solve a lot of problems.You know, right now they know a lot and look at what is happening. The world is blowing up around us. We will have great teams and great people.
 hope that answers your question. I mean, you are in the Senate, but I hope that answers your question.
No, I don’t think he’s suggesting that at all. I mean...
I don’t think he’s suggesting that at all.Well, you have to understand, I am not sitting in the United States Senate with, by the way, the worst voting record there is today. Number one. I am not sitting in the United States Senate. I’m a businessman doing business transactions.
I am doing business transactions. I will know more about this — and, as you said, that was very acceptable, and when you listen to that whole interview, it’s a great interview, you said it, I didn’t. Well, now I did. But...
Listen, just one second. Just one second.
I will know more about the problems of this world by the time I sit, and you look at what’s going in this world right now by people that supposedly know, this world is
a mess. 
I’m — and I’m meeting with people that are terrific people, but I have to say something because it’s about judgment.I am the only person on this dais — the only person — that fought very, very hard against us, and I wasn’t a sitting politician going into Iraq, because I said going into Iraq — that was in 2003, you can check it out, check out — I’ll give you 25 different stories.In fact, a delegation was sent to my office to see me because I was so vocal about it. I’m a very militaristic person, but you have to know when to use the military. I’m the only person up here that fought against going into Iraq.
If you don’t mind, Rand — you know, you are on last — you do have your 1 percent.I would like — and I think it’s very important. I think it’s important, because it’s about judgment. It’s about judgment.I didn’t want to go into Iraq, and I fought it, because what I said — what I said...
Your brother — and your brother’s administration gave us Barack Obama, because it was such a disaster, those last three months, that Abraham Lincoln couldn’t have been elected.
I don’t know. You feel safe right now? I don’t feel so safe.
Or the collapse of the economy.Speaking for myself, I’m OK with it. I think there’s a certain truth to it. I know people that, frankly, it has no impact on their life whatsoever. There are many people.I would almost say leave it up to them, but I would be willing to check it off, and say I will not get Social Security. I do not...
As a policy, I would almost leave it up to the people. Don’t forget they pay in and they pay in, and maybe they do well, and maybe some people want it. But the fact is that there are people that truly don’t need it, and there are many people that do need it very, very badly. And I would be willing to write mine off 100 percent, Dana. BASH: So is a voluntary program the way to get the Social Security system solvent again like that.I’d like to respond.Autism has become an epidemic. Twenty-five years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics, not even close. It has gotten totally out of control.I am totally in favor of vaccines. But I want smaller doses over a longer period of time. Because you take a baby in — and I’ve seen it — and I’ve seen it, and I had my children taken care of over a long period of time, over a two or three year period of time.Same exact amount, but you take this little beautiful baby, and you pump — I mean, it looks just like it’s meant for a horse, not for a child, and we’ve had so many instances, people that work for me.Just the other day, two years old, two and a half years old, a child, a beautiful child went to have the vaccine, and came back, and a week later got a tremendous fever, got very, very sick, now is autistic.I only say it’s not — I’m in favor of vaccines, do them over a longer period of time, same amount.
I think — and I think you’re going to have — I think you’re going to see a big impact on autism.
And that’s all I’m saying, Jake. That’s all I’m saying.
Well, because she’s been sitting for three hours, I think my daughter, Ivanka, who’s right here.Other than that we’ll go with Rosa Parks. I like that.If I become president, we will do something really special. We will make this country greater than ever before. We’ll have more jobs. We’ll have more of everything.We were discussing disease, we were discussing all sorts of things tonight, many of which will just be words, it will just pass on. I don’t want to say politicians, all talk, no action. But a lot of what we talked about is words and it will be forgotten very quickly.If I’m president, many of the things that we discussed tonight will not be forgotten. We’ll find solutions. And the world will respect us. They will respect us like never before. And it will be actually a friendlier world.And I have to say, it is a great honor to be here tonight.
I think maybe my greatest weakness is that I trust people too much. I'm too trusting. And when they let me down, if they let me down, I never forgive. I find it very, very hard to forgive people that deceived me. So I don't know if you would call that a weakness, but my wife said "let up."
Right.
Right.
That's right.
No, not a comic book, and it's not a very nicely asked question the way you say that.
Larry Kudlow is an example, who I have a lot of respect for, who loves my tax plan. We're reducing taxes to 15 percent. We're bringing corporate taxes down, bringing money back in, corporate inversions. We have $2.5 trillion outside of the United States which we want to bring back in.As far as the wall is concerned, we're going to build a wall. We're going to create a border. We're going to let people in, but they're going to come in legally. They're going to come in legally. And it's something that can be done, and I get questioned about that. They built the great wall of China. That's 13,000 miles. Here, we actually need 1,000 because we have natural barriers. So we need 1,000.We can do a wall. We're going to have a big, fat beautiful door right in the middle of the wall. We're going to have people come in, but they're coming in legally. And Mexico's going to pay for the wall because Mexico -- I love the Mexican people; I respect the Mexican leaders -- but the leaders are much sharper, smarter and more cunning than our leaders.And just to finish, people say, how will you get Mexico to pay? A politician other than the people in the states -- I don't want to -- a politician cannot get them to pay. I can. We lose, we have a trade imbalance of $50 billion.Excuse me, John.Right. Dynamically.
Then you have to get rid of Larry Kudlow, who sits on your panel, who's a great guy, who came out the other day and said, I love Trump's tax plan.
First of all, John got lucky with a thing called fracking, OK? He hit oil. He got lucky with fracking. Believe me, that is why Ohio is doing well. Number -- and that is important for you to know.Number two, this was the man that was a managing general partner at Lehman Brothers when it went down the tubes and almost took every one of us with it, including Ben and myself, because I was there and I watched what happened.And Lehman Brothers started it all. He was on the board. And he was a managing general partner.And just thirdly, he was so nice. He was such a nice guy. And he said, oh, I'm never going to attack. But then his poll numbers tanked. He has got -- that is why he is on the end.And he got nasty. And he got nasty. So you know what? You can have him.Well, first of all, like many other very big businessmen, I could name them here, but I'm not going to do that for a lot of obvious reasons, but the biggest, and almost all of them, they've all used the chapter laws, the bankruptcy laws to their own benefit.Before this, I was a very successful person as a developer and as a businessman. Atlantic City has gone bad. I mean, Chris will know about that. I'm not blaming Chris, by the way, but he will know about that. Caesar's -- excuse me -- Caesar's, the Rolls-Royce, as you know, is in bankruptcy. Almost every hotel in Atlantic City has either been in bankruptcy or will be in bankruptcy -- the biggest.But also the biggest people -- now I've used that to my advantage as a business man, for my family, for myself. I never filed for bankruptcy. But many, many people did. What happened with Atlantic City is very, very disgraceful.Now hundreds of companies I've opened. I've used it three times, maybe four times. Came out great. But I guess I'm supposed to come out great. That is what I could do for the country. We owe $19 trillion, boy am I good at solving debt problems. Nobody can solve it like me.But I will tell you this, Atlantic City, you're using that, hundreds of companies that I have opened have thrived. I built a net worth of way over $10 billion, and I have done it four times out of hundreds. And I'm glad I did it.I used the laws of the country to my benefit, I'm sorry.Thank you.
I was not at all critical of him. I was not at all. In fact, frankly, he's complaining about the fact that we're losing some of the most talented people. They go to Harvard. They go to Yale. They go to Princeton. They come from another country and they're immediately sent out.I am all in favor of keeping these talented people here so they can go to work in Silicon Valley.So I have nothing at all critical of him.
Probably, I don't know -- you people write the stuff. I don't know where you...
And if I could say just one thing. I am the only person in either campaign that's self-funding. I'm putting up 100 percent of my own money. And right now, I will be putting up a tremendous -- so far, I've put up less than anybody and I have the best results. Wouldn't that be nice if the country could do that?But I will be putting -- I will be putting up, you know, tremendous amounts of money. SuperPacs are a disaster. They're a scam. They cause dishonesty. And you better get rid of them because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people. And I'm not blaming these folks -- well, I guess I could.Very good people are making very bad decisions right now. And if anything comes out of this whole thing with some of these nasty and ridiculous questions, I will tell you, you better get rid of the SuperPacs because they causing a big problem with this country, not only in dishonesty and what's going on, but also in a lot of bad decisions that have been made for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests.I never said that. I never said that.
You've got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not.
I never said that. I never said that.
He has got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not...
Everybody is really doing some bad fact...I'm in favor of people coming into this country legally. And you know what? They can have it anyway you want. You can call it visas, you can call it work permits, you can call it anything you want. I've created tens of thousands of jobs, and in all due respect -- and actually some of these folks I really like a lot -- but I'm the only one that can say that. I have created tens of thousands of jobs, and I'll be creating many millions of jobs if I'm given -- if I'm given the opportunity to be president.As far as Mark is concerned, as far as the visas are concerned, if we need people, they have -- it's fine. They have to come into this country legally. We have a country of borders. We have a country of laws. We have to obey the laws. It's fine if they come in, but they have to come in legally.
Or somebody else. Right.
Yes, I might feel more comfortable. I would say that I would and I have a permit, which is very unusual in New York -- a permit to carry. And I do carry on occasion, sometimes a lot. But I like to be unpredictable so that people don't know exactly...
By the way, unlike our country where we're totally predictable and the enemy, whether it's ISIS or anybody else, they know exactly what we're doing because we have the wrong leadership.But I feel that the gun-free zones and, you know, when you say that, that's target practice for the sickos and for the
mentally ill. That's target. They look around for gun-free zones. You know, we could give you another example -- the Marines, the Army, these wonderful six soldiers that were killed. Two of them were among the most highly decorated -- they weren't allowed on a military base to have guns. And somebody walked in and shot them, killed them. If they had guns, he wouldn't be around very long. I can tell you, there wouldn't have been much damage.So, I think gun-free zones are a catastrophe. They're a feeding frenzy for sick people.
I would change them. I would change them.
Such a nasty -- such a nasty question, but thank you, Governor.
Yes, it's very simple. We're going to make a really dynamic economy from what we have right now, which is not at all dynamic. We're going to bring jobs back from Japan, we're going to bring jobs back from China, we're going to bring, frankly, jobs back from Mexico where, as you probably saw, Nabisco is leaving Chicago with one of their biggest plants, and they're moving it to Mexico.We're going to bring jobs and manufacturing back. We're going to cut costs. We're going to save Social Security, and we're going to save Medicare.Our country doesn't win anymore. We used to win, we don't win anymore. We lose on trade. We lose with ISIS. We lose with one of the worst deals I've ever seen negotiated of any kind, that's our recent catastrophe with Iran. We don't win.Let me give you one quick example. These folks, CNBC, they had it down at three, three and a half hours. I just read today in the New York Times, $250,000 for a 30 second ad. I went out and said, it's ridiculous. Nobody -- I could stand up here all night. Nobody wants to watch three and a half, or three hours. It was a back sacrifice, and I have to hand it to Ben.We called Ben, he was with me 100%. We called in, we said, that's it. We're not doing it. They lost a lot of money, everybody said it couldn't be done. Everybody said it was going to be three hours, three and a half, including them, and in about two minutes I renegotiated it so we can get the hell out of here. Not bad. And, I'll do that with the country. We will make America great again. And, thank you everybody. Just for the record.That's not right. That is absolutely not right. You know that. That is not right.
I can't be Neil. And the and the reason I can't be is that we are a country that is being beaten on every front economically, militarily. There is nothing that we do now to win. We don't win anymore. Our taxes are too high. I've come up with a tax plan that many, many people like very much. It's going to be a tremendous plan. I think it'll make our country and our economy very dynamic.But, taxes too high, wages too high, we're not going to be able to compete against the world. I hate to say it, but we have to leave it the way it is. People have to go out, they have to work really hard and have to get into that upper stratum. But we can not do this if we are going to compete with the rest of the world. We just can't do it.
I would not do it.
I was so happy yesterday when I saw that decision come down. That was an unbelievable decision.And we don't have enough of those decisions coming down. He of the executive order, because nobody wants to listen to him, including the Democrats, so he just goes around signing executive orders. That was a great day. And, frankly, we have to stop illegal immigration. It's hurting us economically. It's hurting us from every standpoint. It's causing tremendous difficulty with respect to drugs and what that does to many of our inner cities in particular.And it really is -- was such an unbelievable moment because the courts have not been ruling in our favor. And it was a 2-1 decision. And it was a terrific thing that happened.And I will tell you, we are a country of laws. We need borders. We will have a wall. The wall will be built. The wall will be successful. And if you think walls don't work, all you have to do is ask Israel. The wall works, believe me. Properly done. Believe me.You are going to have to bring people -- you are going to have to send people out. Look, we're a country...Maria, we're a country of laws. We either have a country or we don't have a country. We are a country of laws. Going to have to go out and they will come back but they are going to have to go out and hopefully they get back.But we have no choice if we're going to run our country properly and if we're going to be a country.
All I can say is, you're lucky in Ohio that you struck oil. That is for one thing.Let me just tell you that Dwight Eisenhower, good president, great president, people liked him. "I like Ike," right? The expression. "I like Ike." Moved a 1.5 million illegal immigrants out of this country, moved them just beyond the border. They came back. Moved them again beyond the border, they came back. Didn't like it. Moved them way south. They never came back.Dwight Eisenhower. You don't get nicer. You don't get friendlier. They moved a 1.5 million out. We have no choice. We have no choice.
No, it's unfair.
I’ve built an unbelievable company worth billions and billions of dollars. I don't have to hear from this man, believe me. I don't have to hear from him.
We have millions of people right now on line trying to come into this country. Very, very unfair to the people that want to come into our country legally. They've gone through the process. They're on line. They're waiting. Very, very unfair to them. That I can tell you.
And as you understand, I mean, you understand very well from the Wall Street Journal, currency manipulation is the single great weapon people have. They don't even discuss it in this agreement.So I say, it's a very bad deal, should not be approved. If it is approved, it will just be more bad trade deals, more loss of jobs for our country. We are losing jobs like nobody's ever lost jobs before. I want to bring jobs back into this country.
Well, first of all, it's not only Russia. We have problems with North Korea where they actually have nuclear weapons. You know, nobody talks about it, we talk about Iran, and that's one of the worst deals ever made. One of the worst
contracts ever signed, ever, in anything, and it's a disgrace. But, we have somebody over there, a madman, who already has nuclear weapons we don't talk about that. That's a problem.China is a problem, both economically in what they're doing in the South China Sea, I mean, they are becoming a very, very major force. So, we have more than just Russia. But, as far as the Ukraine is concerned, and you could Syria -- as far as Syria, I like -- if Putin wants to go in, and I got to know him very well because we were both on 60 Minutes, we were stablemates, and we did very well that night.But, you know that.But, if Putin wants to go and knocked the hell out of ISIS, I am all for it, 100%, and I can't understand how anybody would be against it...They blew up a Russian airplane. He cannot be in love with these people. He's going in, and we can go in, and everybody should go in. As far as the Ukraine is concerned, we have a group of people, and a group of countries, including Germany -- tremendous economic behemoth -- why are we always doing the work?We are -- I'm all for protecting Ukraine and working -- but, we have countries that are surrounding the Ukraine that aren't doing anything. They say, "Keep going, keep going, you dummies, keep going. Protect us..."
And we have to get smart. We can't continue to be the policeman of the world. We are $19 trillion dollars, we have a country that's going to hell, we have an infrastructure that's falling apart. Our roads, our bridges, our schools, our airports, and we have to start investing money in our country.
Assad is a bad guy, but we have no idea who the so-called rebels -- I read
about the rebels, nobody even knows who they are. I spoke to a general two weeks ago, he said -- he was very up on exactly what we're talking about. He said, "You know, Mr. Trump? We're giving hundreds of millions of dollars of equipment to these people, we have no idea who they are."So, I don't like Assad. Who's going to like Assad? But, we have no idea who these people, and what they're going to be, and what they're going to represent. They may be far worse than Assad. Look at Libya. Look at Iraq. Look at the mess we have after spending $2 trillion dollars, thousands of lives, wounded warriors all over the place -- who I love, OK? All over.We have nothing. And, I said, keep the oil. And we should have kept the oil, believe me. We should have kept the oil. And, you know what? We should have given the oil. We should've given big chunks to the people that lost their arms, their legs, and their families, and their sons, and daughters, because right now, you know who has a lot of that oil? Iran, and ISIS.Why does she keep interrupting everybody?
Terrible.
We are not.
Well, what's happening right now, Neil, is something that not been a subject of conversation by politicians. As primarily the only politician, I guess other than Carly on the stage, they haven't talked about a corporate inversion. A corporate inversion -- companies are leaving. You know, we used to leave New York to go to Florida. We got better taxes, we got, maybe, something else.Now, they're the United States to go to other countries. They have trillions of dollars in those other countries. They're going for two reasons, they can't get their money back in. It's something where the democrats and the republicans both agree, it's the only thing I can think of. They both agree, let the money come back in.
Three and a half years, they still can't make a deal. They can't get the money in. It's probably two and a half trillion, but, I think it's much more than that. All of that money could become -- could come right in and be used to rebuild our country, and investments in our country. They can't do it. What we have to do, and what I've done, is made the tax rate -- and one of the reasons they don't (INAUDIBLE) the taxes so obnoxious, they can't do it.Where, I made it a 10% number, as you know. I've been very highly praised for it. A lot of money's going to come back in, we're going to get rid of the bureaucratic problems, and roadblocks, because that's also a problem. And, we're going to have all of this money pour back into the United States. It's going to be used to build businesses, for jobs, and everything else.And, as I say, my expression is, let's make America great again.
Thank you. Over the years, I've created tens of thousands of jobs and a great company. It's a company I'm very proud of. Some of the most iconic assets anywhere in the world. And I will tell you, I don't have to give you a website because I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm putting up my own money.I want to do something really special. I want to make our country greater than it's ever been. I think we have that potential. We cannot lose this election. We cannot let Hillary Clinton, who is the worst secretary of state in the history of our country, win this election.We will fight. We will win. And we truly will make this even more special. We have to make it better than ever before. And I will tell you, the United States can actually be better than ever before. Thank you.
Thank you.I began this journey six months ago. My total focus was on building up our military, building up our strength, building up our borders, making sure that China, Japan, Mexico, both at the border and in trade, no longer takes advantage of our country.Certainly would never have made that horrible, disgusting, absolutely incompetent deal with Iran where they get $150 billion. They're a terrorist nation. But I began it talking about other things.And those things are things that I'm very good at and maybe that's why I'm center stage. People saw it. People liked it. People respected it.A month ago things changed. Radical Islamic terrorism came into effect even more so than it has been in the past. People like what I say. People respect what I say. And we've opened up a very big discussion that needed to be opened up.Thank you very much.
We are not talking about isolation. We're talking about security. We're not talking about religion. We're talking about security. Our country is out of control. People are pouring across the southern border. I will build a wall. It will be a great wall. People will not come in unless they come in legally. Drugs will not pour through that wall.As far as other people like in the migration, where they're going, tens of thousands of people having cell phones with ISIS flags on them? I don't think so, Wolf. They're not coming to this country. And if I'm president and if Obama has brought some to this country, they are leaving. They're going. They're gone.
Jeb doesn't really believe I'm unhinged. He said that very simply because he has failed in this campaign. It's been a total disaster. Nobody cares. And frankly, I'm the most solid person up here. I built a tremendous company and all I want to do is make America great again.I don't want our country to be taken away from us, and that's what's happening. The policies that we've suffered under other presidents have been a disaster for our country. We want to make America great again. And Jeb, in all fairness, he doesn't believe that.
Well, look, this is so easy to answer. ISIS is recruiting through the Internet. ISIS is using the Internet better than we are using the Internet, and it was our idea. What I wanted to do is I wanted to get our brilliant people from Silicon Valley and other places and figure out a way that ISIS cannot do what they're doing.
You talk freedom of speech. You talk freedom of anything you want. I don't want them using our Internet to take our young, impressionable youth and watching the media talking about how they're masterminds -- these are masterminds. They shouldn't be using the word "mastermind." These are thugs. These are terrible people in ISIS, not masterminds. And we have to change it from every standpoint. But we should be using our brilliant people, our most brilliant minds to figure a way that ISIS cannot use the Internet. And then on second, we should be able to penetrate the Internet and find out exactly where ISIS is and everything about ISIS. And we can do that if we use our good people.I would certainly be open to closing areas where we are at war with somebody. I sure as hell don't want to let people that want to kill us and kill our nation use our Internet. Yes, sir, I am.We have to be much tougher. We have to be much stronger than we've been. We have people that know what is going on. You take a look at just the attack in California the other day. There were numerous people, including the mother, that knew what was going on.They saw a pipe bomb sitting all over the floor. They saw ammunition all over the place. They knew exactly what was going on.When you had the World Trade Center go, people were put into planes that were friends, family, girlfriends, and they were put into planes and they were sent back, for the most part, to Saudi Arabia.They knew what was going on. They went home and they wanted to watch their boyfriends on television. I would be very, very firm with families. Frankly, that will make people think because they may not care much about their lives, but they do care, believe it or not, about their families' lives.
Look, the problem is we need toughness. Honestly, I think Jeb is a very nice person. He's a very nice person. But we need tough people. We need toughness. We need intelligence and we need tough.Jeb said when they come across the southern border they come as an act of love.
Am I talking or are you talking, Jeb?
You can go back. You're not talking. You interrupted me.
Are you going to apologize, Jeb? No. Am I allowed to finish?
Excuse me, am I allowed to finish?
I know you're trying to build up your energy, Jeb, but it's not working very well.
Look, look, look. We need a toughness. We need strength. We're not respected, you know, as a nation anymore. We don't have that level of respect that we need. And if we don't get it back fast, we're just going to go weaker, weaker and just disintegrate.We can't allow that to happen. We need strength. We don't have it. When Jeb comes out and he talks about the border, and I saw it and I was witness to it, and so was everyone else, and I was standing there, "they come across as an act of love," he's saying the same thing right now with radical Islam.And we can't have that in our country. It just won't work. We need strength.With Jeb's attitude, we will never be great again, that I can tell you. We will never be great again.
So, they can kill us, but we can't kill them? That's what you're saying. And as far as the Internet is concerned, we're not talking about closing the Internet. I'm talking about parts of Syria, parts of Iraq, where ISIS is, spotting it.Now, you could close it. What I like even better than that is getting our smartest and getting our best to infiltrate their Internet, so that we know exactly where they're going, exactly where they're going to be. I like that better.
But we have to -- who would be -- I just can't imagine somebody booing. These are people that want to kill us, folks, and you're -- you're objecting to us infiltrating their conversations? I don't think so. I don't think so.In my opinion, we've spent $4 trillion trying to topple various people that frankly, if they were there and if we could've spent that $4 trillion in the United States to fix our roads, our bridges, and all of the other problems; our airports and all of the other problems we've had, we would've been a lot better off. I can tell you that right now.We have done a tremendous disservice, not only to Middle East, we've done a tremendous disservice to humanity. The people that have been killed, the people that have wiped away, and for what? It's not like we had victory.It's a mess. The Middle East is totally destabilized. A total and complete mess. I wish we had the $4 trillion or $5 trillion. I wish it were spent right here in the United States, on our schools, hospitals, roads, airports, and everything else that are all falling apart.Well, there's nothing to respond to. Well, people feel differently. I mean, the fact is Benghazi was a disaster because of Libya, everything just fell into place. It could not have been worse.What do we have now? We have nothing. We've spent $3 trillion and probably much more - I have no idea what we've spent. Thousands and thousands of lives, we have nothing. Wounded warriors all over the place who I love, we have nothing for it.And by the way - and Ben said incorrectly - and I'm not saying this as a knock - he's one of finest men. You're not going to find a finer men.But I've been talking about oil for three years. I've been saying,, "take the oil, take the oil." I didn't say, "just bomb it," I said," take it and use it and distribute it so that the wounded warriors -" People, I've been saying this now for
many years.
Now, all of a sudden everybody's saying, "take the oil." It wasn't so fashionable to take the oil six months ago. I've been saying it for years.I think Assad is a bad guy, a very bad guy, all right? Lots of people killed. I think we are backing people we have no idea who they are. The rebels, we call them the rebels, the patriotic rebels. We have no idea. A lot of people think, Hugh, that they are ISIS.We have to do one thing at a time. We can't be fighting ISIS and fighting Assad. Assad is fighting ISIS. He is fighting
ISIS. Russia is fighting now ISIS. And Iran is fighting ISIS.We have to do one thing at a time. We can't go -- and I watched Lindsey Graham, he said, I have been here for 10 years fighting. Well, he will be there with that thinking for another 50 years. He won't be able to solve the problem.We have to get rid of ISIS first. After we get rid of ISIS, we'll start thinking about it. But we can't be fighting Assad. And when you're fighting Assad, you are fighting Russia, you're fighting -- you're fighting a lot of different groups.But we can't be fighting everybody at one time.
I think it's very sad that CNN leads Jeb Bush, Governor Bush, down a road by starting off virtually all the questions, "Mr. Trump this, Mister" -- I think it's very sad. And, frankly, I watched -- I think it's very sad. And, frankly, I watched the first debate, and the first long number of questions were, "Mr. Trump said this, Mr. Trump said that. Mr. Trump" -- these poor guys -- although, I must tell you, Santorum, good guy. Governor Huckabee, good guy. They were very nice, and I respect them greatly. But I thought it was very unfair that virtually the entire early portion of the debate was Trump this, Trump that, in order to get ratings, I guess. In order to get ratings, I guess.I just think it's very -- excuse me.
Excuse me. I think it's very unprofessional.
Well, I think it's very unprofessional.
OK, fine.
This isn't tough and easy. I wish it...
I wish it was always this easy as you, Jeb.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, I know. You're a tough guy, Jeb. I know.
Well, let's see. I'm at 42, and you're at 3. So, so far, I'm doing better.
So far, I'm doing better. You know, you started off over here, Jeb. You're moving over further and further.
Pretty soon you're going to be off the end...
I have a very hardline position, we have a country or we don't have a country. People that have come into our country illegally, they have to go. They have to come back into through a legal process.I want a strong border. I do want a wall. Walls do work, you just have to speak to the folks in Israel. Walls work if they're properly constructed. I know how to build, believe me, I know how to build.I feel a very, very strong bind, and really I'm bound to this country, we either have a border or we don't. People can come into the country, we welcome people to come but they have to come in legally.
Well, first of all, I think we need somebody absolutely that we can trust, who is totally responsible; who really knows what he or she is doing. That is so powerful and so important. And one of the things that I'm frankly most proud of is that in 2003, 2004, I was totally against going into Iraq because you're going to destabilize the Middle East. I called it. I called it very strongly. And it was very important.But we have to be extremely vigilant and extremely careful when it comes to nuclear. Nuclear changes the whole ball game. Frankly, I would have said get out of Syria; get out -- if we didn't have the power of weaponry today. The power is so massive that we can't just leave areas that 50 years ago or 75 years ago we wouldn't care. It was hand-to- hand combat.The biggest problem this world has today is not President Obama with global warming, which is inconceivable, this is what he's saying. The biggest problem we have is nuclear -- nuclear proliferation and having some maniac, having some madman go out and get a nuclear weapon. That's in my opinion, that is the single biggest problem that our country faces right now.I think -- I think, for me, nuclear is just the power, the devastation is very important to me.I did.
Let me just say that I have gotten to know him over the last three or four days. He has a wonderful temperament.
He's just fine. Don't worry about it.You better not attack...
I really am. I'll be honest, I really am.
I mean, the people have been putting me...
I really am.
Let me just. Can I just finish my...I've gained great respect for the Republican leadership. I've gained great respect for many -- and I'm going to even say -- I mean, in different forms for the people on the dais, in different forms.
In different forms.But I have great respect for the people I have met through this process. I've never done this process before. I've never been a politician. I mean, for the last six months I've been a politician.But I will tell you, I am totally committed to the Republican Party. I feel very honored to be the front runner.And I think I'll do very well if I'm chosen. If I'm so fortunate to be chosen, I think I'll do very well.Polls have come out recently saying I would beat Hillary. I will do everything in my power to beat Hillary Clinton, I promise you.
It's not fear and terror, it's reality. You just have to look today at Indonesia, bombings all over.
You look at California, you look, frankly, at Paris where there's a -- the strictest no-gun policy of any city anywhere in the world, and you see what happens: 130 people dead with many to follow. They're very, very badly wounded. They will -- some will follow. And you look around, and you see what's happening, and this is not the case when he introduced the doctor -- very nice, everything perfect but that is not representative of what you have in that line of migration.That could be the great Trojan Horse. It could be people that are going to do great, great destruction. When I look at the migration, I looked at the line, I said it actually on your show recently, where are the women? It looked like very few women. Very few children. Strong, powerful men, young and people are looking at that and they're saying what's going on?You look at the kind of damage that two people that two people that got married, they were radicalized --they got married, they killed 15 people in actually 15 -- going to be probably 16 but you look at that and you take a look -- a good strong look and that's what we have. We are nineteen trillion dollars -- our country's a mess and we can't let all these people come into our country and break our borders. We can't do it.
But I was born here.
Big difference.
OK, good. Because it wouldn't work.
first of all, let me just tell you something -- and you know, because you just saw the numbers yourself -- NBC Wall Street Journal just came out with a poll -- headline: Trump way up, Cruz going down. I mean, so don't -- so you can't -- you can't...they don't like the Wall Street Journal. They don't like NBC, but I like the poll.
And frankly, it just came out, and in Iowa now, as you know, Ted, in the last three polls, I'm beating you. So -- you
know, you shouldn't misrepresent how well you're doing with the polls.You don't have to say that. In fact, I was all for you until you started doing that, because that's a misrepresentation, number one.Number two, this isn't me saying it. I don't care. I think I'm going to win fair and square (inaudible) to win this way. Thank you.Lawrence Tribe and (inaudible) from Harvard -- of Harvard, said that there is a serious question as to whether or not Ted can do this. OK? There are other attorneys that feel, and very, very fine constitutional attorneys, that feel that because he was not born on the land, he cannot run for office.Here's the problem. We're running. We're running. He does great. I win. I choose him as my vice presidential candidate, and the Democrats sue because we can't take him along for the ride. I don't like that. OK?The fact is -- and if for some reason he beats the rest of the field, he beats the rest of the field (inaudible). See, they don't like that. They don't like that.No, they don't like he beats the rest of the field, because they want me.But -- if for some reason, Neil, he beats the rest of the field, I already know the Democrats are going to be bringing a suit. You have a big lawsuit over your head while you're running. And if you become the nominee, who the hell knows if you can even serve in office? So you should go out, get a declaratory judgment, let the courts decide. And you shouldn't have mentioned the polls because I would have been much...Because now he's going a little bit better. No, I didn't care. It's true. No, it's true. Hey look, he
never had a chance. Now, he's doing better. He's got probably a four or five percent chance.
The fact is, there is a big overhang. There's a big question mark on your head. And you can't do that to the party. You really can't. You can't do that to the party. You have to have certainty. Even if it was a one percent chance, and it's far greater than one percent because.I mean, you have great constitutional lawyers that say you can't run. If there was a -- and you know I'm not bringing a suit. I promise. But the Democrats are going to bring a lawsuit, and you have to have certainty. You can't have a question. I can agree with you or not, but you can't have a question over your head.
You don't have to. Take it from Lawrence Tribe.
Take it from your professors...
He's wrong. He's wrong.
He is not the only one.There are many lawyers.I like that. I like it. I'd consider it. But I think I'll go back to building buildings if it doesn't work out.
I have a feeling it's going to work out, actually.Okay. First of all, Nikki this afternoon said I'm a friend of hers. Actually a close friend. And wherever you are sitting Nikki, I'm a friend. We're friends. That's good.
But she did say there was anger. And I could say, oh, I'm not angry. I'm very angry because our country is being run horribly and I will gladly accept the mantle of anger. Our military is a disaster.
 Our healthcare is a horror show. Obamacare, we're going to repeal it and replace it. We have no borders. Our vets are being treated horribly. Illegal immigration is beyond belief. Our country is being run by incompetent people. And yes, I am angry.
And I won't be angry when we fix it, but until we fix it, I'm very, very angry. And I say that to Nikki. So when Nikki said that, I wasn't offended. She said the truth.One of your colleagues interviewed me. And said, well, she said you were angry and I said to myself, huh, she's right. I'm not fighting that. I didn't find it offensive at all. I'm angry because our country is a mess.No. I am a 2nd amendment person. If we had guns in California on the other side where the bullets went in the different direction, you wouldn't have 14 or 15 people dead right now.If even in Paris, if they had guns on the other side, going in the opposite direction, you wouldn't have 130 people plus dead. So the answer is no and what Jeb said is absolutely correct.We have a huge mental health problem in this country. We're closing hospitals, we're closing wards, we're closing so many because the states want to save money. We have to get back into looking at what's causing it. The guns don't pull the trigger. It's the people that pull the trigger and we have to find out what is going on.We have to protect our 2nd amendment and you cannot do this and certainly what Barack Obama was doing with the executive order. He doesn't want to get people together, the old-fashioned way, where you get Congress. You get the Congress, you get the Senate, you get together, you do legislation. He just writes out an executive order. Not supposed to happen that way.
You get the Congress. You get the Senate. You get together. You do legislation. He just writes out an order, executive order. It's not supposed to happen that way.
So conservatives actually do come out of Manhattan, including William F. Buckley and others, just so you understand.And just so -- if I could, because he insulted a lot of people. I've had more calls on that statement that Ted made -- New York is a great place. It's got great people, it's got loving people, wonderful people.When the World Trade Center came down, I saw something that no place on Earth could have handled more beautifully, more humanely than New York. You had two 110-story buildings come crashing down. I saw them come down. Thousands of people killed, and the cleanup started the next day, and it was the most horrific cleanup, probably in the history of doing this, and in construction. I was down there, and I've never seen anything like it.
And the people in New York fought and fought and fought, and we saw more death, and even the smell of death -- nobody understood it. And it was with us for months, the smell, the air.And we rebuilt downtown Manhattan, and everybody in the world watched and everybody in the world loved New York and loved New Yorkers. And I have to tell you, that was a very insulting statement that Ted made.
Look, we have to stop with political correctness. We have to get down to creating a country that's not going to have the kind of problems that we've had with people flying planes into the World Trade Centers, with the -- with the shootings in California, with all the problems all over the world.I just left Indonesia -- bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb.We have to find out what's going on. I said temporarily. I didn't say permanently. I said temporarily. And I have many great Muslim friends. And some of them, I will say, not all, have called me and said, "Donald, thank you very much; you're exposing an unbelievable problem and we have to get to the bottom of it."And unlike President Obama, where he refuses even to use the term of what's going on, he can't use the term for whatever reason. And if you can't use the term, you're never going to solve the problem. My Muslim friends, some, said, "thank you very much; we'll get to the bottom of it."
But we have a serious problem. And we can't be the stupid country any more. We're laughed at all over the world.
Eleven points, to be exact.
I want security for this country. OK?I want security. I'm tired of seeing what's going on, between the border where the people flow over; people come in; they live; they shoot. I want security for this country. We have a serious problem with, as you know, with radical Islam. We have a tremendous problem. It's not only a problem here. It's a problem all over the world.I want to find out why those two young people -- those two horrible young people in California when they shot the 14 people, killed them -- people they knew, people that held the wedding reception for them. I want to find out -- many people saw pipe bombs and all sorts of things all over their apartment. Why weren't they vigilant? Why didn't they call? Why didn't they call the police?And by the way, the police are the most mistreated people in this country. I will tell you that.The most mistreated people. In fact, we need to -- wait a minute -- we need vigilance. We have to find out -- many people knew about what was going on. Why didn't they turn those two people in so that you wouldn't have had all the death?There's something going on and it's bad. And I'm saying we have to get to the bottom of it. That's all I'm saying. We need security.
That's wrong. They were wrong. It's the New York Times, they are always wrong.They were wrong.
No, I said, " I would use -- " they were asking me what to do about North Korea. China, they don't like to tell us but they have total control -- just about, of North Korea. They can solve the problem of North Korea if they wanted to but they taunt us.They say, " well, we don't really have control." Without China, North Korea doesn't even eat. China is ripping us on trade. They're devaluing their currency and they're killing our companies. Thousands of thousands -- you look at the number of companies and the number in terms of manufacturing of plans that we've lost -- 50,000 because of China. It's not that complicated actually.
OK, just so you understand -- I know so much about trading about with China. Carl Icon today as you know endorsed. Many businessmen want to endorse me.
Carl said, "no, no -- " but he's somebody -- these are the kind of people that we should use to negotiate and not the China people that we have who are political hacks who don't know what they're doing and we have problems like this. If these are the kinds of people -- we should use our best and our finest.Now, on that tariff -- here's what I'm saying, China -- they send their goods and we don't tax it -- they do whatever they want to do. They do whatever what they do, OK. When we do business with China, they tax us. You don't know it, they tax us.I have many friends that deal with China. They can't -- when they order the product and when they finally get the product it is taxed. If you looking at what happened with Boeing and if you look at what happened with so many companies that deal -- so we don't have an equal playing field. I'm saying, absolutely, we don't have to continue to lose 505 billion dollars as a trade deficit for the privilege of dealing with China.I'm a free trader. I believe in it but we have to be smart and we have to use smart people to negotiate. I have the largest bank in the world as a tenant of mine. I sell tens' of millions of (inaudible).I love China. I love the Chinese people but they laugh themselves, they can't believe how stupid the American leadership is.I'm totally open to a tariff. If they don't treat us fairly, hey, their whole trade is tariffed. You can't deal in
China without tariffs. They do it to us, we don't it. It's not fair trade.
I'm happy to have him tonight...
Neil, the problem with what Marco is saying is that it takes too long, they're sucking us dry and it takes too long. It would just -- you absolutely have to get involved with China, they are taking so much of what we have in terms of jobs in terms of money. We just can't do it any longer.
You looking at me?
Can I tell you what? It will never happen because they'll let their currency go up. They're never going to let it happen.
Japan, the same thing. They are devaluing -- it's so impossible for -- you look at Caterpillar Tractor and what's happening with Caterpillar and Kamatsu. Kamatsu is a tractor company in Japan. Friends of mine are ordering Kamatsu (ph) tractors now because they've de-valued the yen to such an extent that you can't buy a Caterpillar tractor. And we're letting them get away with it and we can't let them get away with it.And that's why we have to use Carl and we have to use our great businesspeople and not political hacks to negotiate with these guys.And we don't need a weak person being president of the United State, OK? Because that's what we'd get if it were Jeb -- I tell you what, we don't need that.
We don't need that. That's essentially what we have now, and we don't need that. And that's why we're in the trouble that we're in now. And by the way, Jeb you mentioned Boeing, take a look. They order planes, they make Boeing build their plant in China. They don't want them made here. They want those planes made in China.That's not the way the game is supposed to be played.
No, the new planes. I'm not talking about now, I'm talking about in the future they're building massive plants in China because China does not want Boeing building their planes here, they want them built in China, because China happens to be smart the way they do it, not the way we do it.I'll check for you.
Maria -- Maria, what you were talking about just now is called corporate inversion. It's one of the biggest problems our country has. Right now, corporations, by the thousands, are thinking of leaving our country with the jobs -- leave them behind.They're leaving because of taxes, but they are also leaving because they can't get their money back and everybody agrees, Democrats and Republicans, that is should come back in. But they can't get along. They can't even make a deal.Here is the case, they both agree, they can't make a deal. We have to do something. Corporate inversion is one of the biggest problems we have. So many companies are going to leave our country.
Thank you.Well, it's an interesting question because I'm very proud of my company. As you too know, I know I built a very great company. But if I become president, I couldn't care less about my company. It's peanuts.I want to use that same up here, whatever it may be to make America rich again and to make America great again. I have Ivanka, and Eric and Don sitting there. Run the company kids, have a good time. I'm going to do it for America.So I would -- I would be willing to do that.
I would put it in a blind trust. Well, I don't know if it's a blind trust if Ivanka, Don and Eric run it. If that's a blind trust, I don't know. But I would probably have my children run it with my executives and I wouldn't ever be involved because I wouldn't care about anything but our country, anything.Thank you.
I stood yesterday with 75 construction workers. They're tough, they're strong, they're great people. Half of them had tears pouring down their face. They were watching the humiliation of our young ten sailors, sitting on the floor with their knees in a begging position, their hands up.And Iranian wise guys having guns to their heads. It was a terrible sight. A terrible sight. And the only reason we got
them back is because we owed them with a stupid deal, $150 billion. If I'm president, there won't be stupid deals anymore.We will make America great again. We will win on everything we do. Thank you.
 actually think I have the best temperament. I built a massive corporation. I employ thousands and thousands of people. I've gotten along with people for years and years, have tremendous relationships with many people, including politicians on both sides. And no matter how you cut it, when I -- when I came out, I hit immigration, I hit it very hard. Everybody said, "Oh, the temperament," because I talked about illegal immigration.
Now, everybody's coming to me, they're all trying to say, well, he's right, we have to come to him. I hit other things. I talked about Muslims. We have a problem. Nobody else wanted to mention the problem, I brought it up. I took a lot of heat. We have to have a temporary something, because there's something going on that's not good. And remember this, I'm the only one up here, when the war of Iraq -- in Iraq, I was the one that said, "Don't go, don't do it, you're going to destabilize the Middle East." So, I'm not one with a trigger. I'm not one with a trigger. Other people up here, believe me, would be a lot faster.But I'll build the military stronger, bigger, better than anybody up here, and nobody is going to mess with us. That, I can tell you.
Am I allowed to respond? I have to respond.
First of all, I respect what Ted just said, but if you noticed, he didn't answer your question. And that's what's going to happen -- OK.
That's what's going to happen with our enemies and the people we compete against. We're going to win with Trump. We're going to win. We don't win anymore. Our country doesn't win anymore. We're going to win with Trump. And people back down with Trump. And that's what I like and that's what the country is going to like.Well, let me say a couple of things. First of all, Marco said earlier on that President Obama knows exactly what he's doing, like we have this president that really knows. I disagree, respectfully, with Marco.I think we have a president who, as a president, is totally incompetent, and he doesn't know what he's doing.
I think he has no idea what he's doing. And our country is going to hell. So, I just want to say, we disagree on that. Is that okay?
Good.
As to North Korea?
We have -- tremendous -- has been just sucked out of our country by China. China says they don't have that good of control over North Korea. They have tremendous control. I deal with the Chinese all of the time. I do tremendous -- the largest bank in the world is in one of my buildings in Manhattan.I deal with them. They tell me. They have total, absolute control, practically, of North Korea. They are sucking trillions of dollars out of our country -- they're rebuilding China with the money they take out of our country. I would get on with China, let China solve that problem.They can do it quickly and surgically. That's what we should do with North Korea.
Good evening.Yes.
I don't think I am. I think I'm closer to common sense. We are going to repeal Obamacare. 
We're going to repeal Obamacare. We are going to replace Obamacare with something so much better. And there are so many examples of it. And I will tell you, part of the reason we have some people laughing, because you have insurance people that take care of everybody up here.I am self-funded. The only one they're not taking care of is me. We have our lines around each state. The insurance companies are getting rich on Obamacare. The insurance companies are getting rich on health care and health services and everything having to do with health. We are going to end that.
We're going to take out the artificial boundaries, the artificial lines. We're going to get a plan where people compete, free enterprise. They compete. So much better.In addition to that, you have the health care savings plans, which are excellent. What I do say is, there will be a certain number of people that will be on the street dying and as a Republican, I don't want that to happen. We're going to take care of people that are dying on the street because there will be a group of people that are not going to be able to even think in terms of private or anything else and we're going to take care of those people.And I think everybody on this stage would have to agree you're not going to let people die, sitting in the middle of a street in any city in this country.Well, let me just tell you about eminent domain because almost all of these people actually criticize it, but so many people have hit me with commercials and other things about eminent domain.Eminent domain is an absolute necessity for a country, for our country. Without it, you wouldn't have roads, you wouldn't have hospitals, you wouldn't have anything. You wouldn't have schools, you wouldn't have bridges. You need eminent domain. And a lot of the big conservatives that tell me how conservative they are -- I think I'm more than they are -- they tell me, oh -- well, they all want the Keystone Pipeline. The Keystone Pipeline, without eminent domain, it wouldn't go 10 feet, OK? You need eminent domain. And eminent domain is a good thing, not a bad thing.And what a lot of people don't know because they were all saying, oh, you're going to take their property. When somebody -- when eminent domain is used on somebody's property, that person gets a fortune. They get at least fair market value, and if they are smart, they'll get two or three times the value of their property. But without eminent domain, you don't have roads, highways, schools, bridges or anything.So eminent domain -- it's not that I love it, but eminent domain is absolutely -- it's a necessity for a country. And certainly it's a necessity for our country.Yes.
Jeb wants to be -- he wants to be a tough guy tonight. I didn't take the property.
I didn't take the property.
The woman ultimately didn't want to do that. I walked away.Well, let me just -- you know, he wants to be a tough guy. A lot of times, you'll have -- you'll have -- and it didn't work very well.
Let me talk. Quiet. 
A lot of times that's all of his donors and special interests out there.
So -- it's what it is. That's what -- and by the way, let me just tell you, we needed tickets. You can't get them. You know who has the tickets for the -- I'm talking about, to the television audience? Donors, special interests, the people that are putting up the money.
That's who it is. The RNC told us. We have all donors in the audience. And the reason they're not loving me is, I don't want their money. I'm going to do the right thing for the American public. I don't want their money. I don't need their money. And I'm the only one up here that can say that.Eminent domain, the Keystone pipeline -- do you consider that a private job?
Do you consider the Keystone pipeline private?
Is it public or private?
Real -- a public use?
 No, it's a private job.
It's a private job.
You wouldn't have the Keystone pipeline that you want so badly without eminent domain.
Well, I think I am, and to me, I view the word conservative as a derivative I -- of -- of the word conserve. We want to converse our money. We want to conserve our wealth. We want to conserve. We want to be smart. We want to be smart where we go, where we spend, how we spend. We want to conserve our country. We want to save our country. And we have people that have no idea how to do that and they are not doing it, and it's a very important word and it's something I believe in very, very strongly.Well, before I go there, I will tell you, I will bring jobs back from China. I will bring jobs back from Japan. I will bring jobs back from Mexico, where New Hampshire, by the way, has been virtually wiped out. They've lost so many businesses going to Mexico because of horrible trade deals. And now we're about to sign another trade deal, TPP, which is going to be a disaster for this country because they don't talk about monetary manipulation. It is going to be a disaster.I'm going to bring jobs back and I'll start bringing them back very fast. Under my tax plan -- right now, we're the highest taxed country in the world. Under my plan, we cut not only taxes for the middle class, but we cut taxes for corporations. We will bring back trillions of dollars that's offshore. Right now, they have $2.5 trillion, and in my opinion, it's much more than that. That's what the government says. All of that money is going to come back.And we're not going to lose Pfizer, which is now leaving, and other great companies, which is now leaving. And they're all leaving. We have many, many companies that are leaving this country. We're not going to lose them anymore because we're going to have a tax structure that is going to keep them in our country.
Well, four years ago, I said, bomb the oil and take the oil. And if we did that, they wouldn't have the wealth they have right now. Now, I still say the same thing, because we're doing little pinpricks. We're not even bombing -- if somebody's driving a truck, they give notice to the person driving the truck, "we're going to bomb." If they don't get out of the truck, the truck sails away with the oil.We actually have a case where we don't want to bomb the oil, because we don't want to hurt -- pollute the atmosphere. Can you imagine General Douglas MacArthur or General Patton saying we can't bomb because we're gonna hurt the atmosphere?You have to knock the hell out of the oil. You have to take the oil. And you have also back channels of banking. You have people that you think are our great allies, our friends, in the Middle East, that are paying tremendous numbers of -- tremendous amounts of money to ISIS.So we have to stop those circuits. Nobody knows banking better than I do. They have back circuits, back channels. Tremendous amounts of money is coming in through the banking system. So between the oil and the banking, you will dry them up. But it should have been done four years ago, not now.
You have to go in -- first of all, when you take away their money, when you take away their wealth, that'll very much weaken -- and it will happen fairly fast.They'll last for about a year, based on all of the wealth they've accumulated. But when you stop the banking channels and when you stop the oil and take the oil -- not just bomb it, take it -- when you do that, it's going to dry up very quickly. They're going to become a very weakened power, quickly. Thank you.Well, I'll tell you what. In the Middle East, we have people chopping the heads off Christians, we have people chopping the heads off many other people. We have things that we have never seen before -- as a group, we have never seen before, what's happening right now.The medieval times -- I mean, we studied medieval times -- not since medieval times have people seen what's going on. I would bring back waterboarding and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding.No, a good deal maker will make great deals, but we'll do it the way our founders thought it should be done. People get together, they make deals. Ronald Reagan did it with Tip O'Neil very successfully, you didn't hear so much about executive orders, if you heard about it at all. You have to be able to get a consensus.Now, the real person like it was mentioned about the deal with Iran, how bad a deal is that? It doesn't get any more amateurish than that. A good deal maker would never make a deal like that. With Congress, you have to get everybody in a room, and you have to get them to agree. But, you have to get them to agree what you want, and that's part of being a deal maker. You can't leave the White House, go to Hawaii and play golf for three weeks and be a real deal maker. It doesn't work that way. You have to get people in, grab them, hug them, kiss them, and get the deal done. But, it's got to be the deal that you want.
Some?
The problem with executive authority for the president, it's really bad news for this reason. Since he's given up on working with Congress, he thinks he can impose anything he wants. He's not a king. He's a president. An executive order should be used frankly in consolidation and with consulting with the leadership in the -- in the Congress.I've done it in Ohio. I consult. I could use executive orders, but I don't trump the legislature, because if you do, you aggravate them, you anger them and then the long-term prospects get bleak. We have to solve problems in America by coming together, Republicans and Democrats, Americans first, party and ideology second -- in the second back seat of this country. That's what we need to do.
And we can do it. And we can do it.
Yes. OK, good. It looked like he was looking right at me, right there.I think that -- I look at what's going on, I look at all of the polls, I do very, very well against Hillary Clinton. I can tell you, I'm the last person that she wants to run against.And I think you can see what we've done in terms of galvanizing. I've been all over the country. We're -- last night, I was in South Carolina, we had 12,000 people. It set up in about four days. We have galvanized and we've created a movement. A lot of it has to do with -- as an example, Josh's question on drugs.I'm the first person that said, "Build a wall." But I mean, a real wall, not a toy wall like they have right now. A real wall. And you'll solve lots of problems.But we will galvanize the people of this country, and we will beat Hillary Clinton. Because -- assuming that she runs, by the way, how she gets away with the e-mail stuff is hard to believe. So, I don't know that she's going to be running.I mean, look. And speaking of that, if she runs, she's running for one reason. She's going to be able to run for one reason, and that's because the Democrats are protecting her. Because so many people have done so much less than her, and they were absolutely -- their lives have been destroyed.But on the assumption they do protect her, I will win the election and we will win it by a lot. We will win it handily. We cannot have another four years of essentially Barack Obama.Well, there is a divide, but I have to say that the police are absolutely mistreated and misunderstood, and if there is an incident, whether it's an incident done purposely -- which is a horror, and you should really take very strong action -- or if it is a mistake, it's on your news casts all night, all week, all month, and it never ends.The police in this country have done an unbelievable job of keeping law and order, and they're afraid for their jobs, they're afraid of the mistreatment they get, and I'm telling you that not only, me speaking, minorities all over the country, they respect the police of this country and we have to give them more respect.They can't act. They can't act. They're afraid for losing their pension, their job. They don't know what to do. And I deal with them all the time. We have to give great respect, far greater than we are right now, to our really fantastic police.
Well, they do. And, you know, they sue. Everybody sues, right? They see excessive -- I mean, they go out, they sue. We have so much litigation -- I see the courts, I see what they're doing. They sue, and you know what? We don't want excessive force. But at what point -- you know, either you're going to have a police force that can do its job...I was just up in Manchester, I met with the police officers yesterday. Tremendous people. They love the area, they love the people, they love all the people. They want to do their job. And you're going to have abuse and you're going to have problems, and you've got to solve the problems and you have to weed out the problems. But the police in this country are absolutely amazing people.
Well, I -- I know Diane Foley very well. Her husband and -- these are tremendous people. I spoke for them, I raised a lot of money for the foundation. I fully understand, James, one of -- that was really the first that we saw, really visually saw -- it was so horrible.And I will tell you, though, with all of that being said, you can not negotiate this way with terrorists. If you do, you are going to have many, many more James Foleys.James Foley was a great young man. His parents are incredible people. They've done such a good job, since his -- since his death. But you just cannot negotiate that way with terrorists, or you're gonna have so many other James Foleys.And one thing on the vets -- during the last debate, I raised $6 million for the vets, and I will tell you that I think nobody here, nobody on this stage, gets along with the veterans groups in New Hampshire better than I do without ball to sarel and all of the people that I deal with and these are great people.The one thing that we're not mentioning, there's tremendous fraud, waste and abuse in the Veterans Administration and if I'm running things, that's going to disappear and it's going to disappear quickly.
Carolina.
That's because he got Ben Carson's votes, by the way, but we won't. Our country that we love so much doesn't win anymore. We don't win with the military, we don't' win on the border. You look at New Hampshire with the tremendous problem we have with heroin. Number one thing I hear from the people of New Hampshire, who I love, and developed such relationships, we don't win with healthcare. We don't win with trade.You look at what other countries are doing to us. China. Everyone, they're killing us on trade. If I'm elected president, we will win, and we will win, and we will win. Thank you, thank you very much.Well, I can say this. If the president, and if I were president now, I would certainly want to try and nominate a justice. I’m sure that, frankly, I’m absolutely sure that President Obama will try and do it. I hope that our Senate is going to be able — Mitch, and the entire group, is going to be able to do something about it.In times of delay, we could have a Diane Sykes, or you could have a Bill Pryor — we have some fantastic people. But this is a tremendous blow to conservatism. It’s a tremendous blow, frankly, to our country.
I think he’s going to do it whether or I’m O.K. with it or not. I think it’s up to Mitch McConnell and everybody else to stop it. It’s called delay, delay, delay.
What we want to do, when we want to do it, and how hard do we want to hit? Because we are going to have to hit very, very hard to knock out ISIS.We’re going to also have to learn who our allies are. We have allies, so- called allies, we’re spending billions and billions of dollars supporting people — we have no idea who they are in Syria. Do we want to stay that route, or do we want to go and make something with Russia?I hate to say Iran, but with Russia, because we — and the Iran deal is one of the worst deals I have ever seen negotiated in my entire life. It’s a disgrace that this country negotiated that deal. Not only a disgrace, it’s a disgrace and an embarrassment. But very important, who are we fighting with? Who are we fighting for? What are we doing? We have to rebuild our country. But we have to — I’m the only one on this stage that said: “Do not go into Iraq. Do not attack Iraq.” Nobody else on this stage said that. And I said it loud and strong. And I was in the private sector. I wasn’t a politician, fortunately.But I said it, and I said it loud and clear, “You’ll destabilize the Middle East.” That’s exactly what happened.I also said, by the way, four years ago, three years ago, attack the oil, take the wealth away, attack the oil and keep the oil. They didn’t listen. They just started that a few months ago.
Let me just tell you this.Jeb is so wrong. Jeb is absolutely self — just so you understand, you know what that is? That’s Jeb’s special interest and lobbyist talking.Look, let me just tell you something, Jeb — Jeb is so wrong. You got to fight ISIS first. You fight ISIS first. Right now you have Russia, you have Iran, you have them with Assad, and you have them with Syria. You have to knock out ISIS. They’re chopping off heads. These are animals. You have to knock ’em out. You have to knock them off strong. You decide what to do after, you can’t fight two wars at one time.If you listen to him, and you listen to some of the folks that I’ve been listening to, that’s why we’ve been in the Middle East for 15 years, and we haven’t won anything. We’ve spent $5 trillion dollars in the Middle East with thinking like that.
Lindsey Graham, who backs him, had zero on his polls. Let me just say something — we’ve spent — we’ve spent.I only tell the truth, lobbyists.We’ve spent $5 trillion dollars all over the — we have to rebuild our country. We have to rebuild our infrastructure.
You’ll end up with World War III...
We’re supporting troops that we don’t even know who they are.We’re supporting troops that we don’t even know who they are.We have no idea who they are.
First of all, I have to say, as a businessman, I get along with everybody. I have business all over the world.I know so many of the people in the audience. And by the way, I’m a self-funder. I don’t have — I have my wife and I have my son. That’s all I have. I don’t have this.
So let me just tell you, I get along with everybody, which is my obligation to my company, to myself, et cetera.Obviously, the war in Iraq was a big, fat mistake. All right? Now, you can take it any way you want, and it took — it took Jeb Bush, if you remember at the beginning of his announcement, when he announced for president, it took him five days.He went back, it was a mistake, it wasn’t a mistake. It took him five days before his people told him what to say, and he ultimately said, “It was a mistake.” The war in Iraq, we spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives, we don’t even have it. Iran has taken over Iraq, with the second-largest oil reserves in the world.Obviously, it was a mistake.
George Bush made a mistake. We can make mistakes. But that one was a beauty. We should have never been in Iraq. We have destabilized the Middle East.
You do whatever you want. You call it whatever you want. I want to tell you. They lied. They said there were weapons of mass destruction, there were none. And they knew there were none. There were no weapons of mass destruction.
I’m being nice.
The World Trade Center came down during your brother’s reign, remember that.
That’s not keeping us safe. She should be running.
How did he keep us safe when the World Trade Center — the World — excuse me. I lost hundreds of friends. The World Trade Center came down during the reign of George Bush. He kept us safe? That is not safe. That is not safe, Marco. That is not safe.And George Bush — by the way, George Bush had the chance, also, and he didn’t listen to the advice of his C.I.A.
I don’t want to go.
 Yes.
First of all, the — when you say I’m the only candidate, if you listen to the Democrats, they want to do many things to Social Security, and I want to do them on its own merit. You listen to them, what they want to do to Social Security, none of these folks are getting elected, O.K., whether they can do it or not. I’m going to save Social Security. I’m going to bring jobs back from China. I’m going to bring jobs back from Mexico and from Japan, where they’re all — every country throughout the world — now Vietnam, that’s the new one.They are taking our jobs. They are taking our wealth. They are taking our
base. And you and I have had this discussion. We’re going to make our economy strong again. I’m lowering taxes. We have $2.5 trillion offshore. We have 2.5 trillion that I think is actually five trillion because the government has no idea when they say 2.5, they have no idea what they’re doing or saying, as they’ve proven very well.We’re going to bring that money back. You take a look at what happened just this week. China bought the Chicago Stock Exchange, China, a Chinese company. Carrier is moving to Mexico, air conditioning company. Not only the ones I talk about all the time, Nabisco and Ford and — they’re all moving out.We have an economy that last quarter, G.D.P. didn’t grow. It was flat. We have to make our economy grow again. We’re dying. This country is dying.
I’m the only one who is going to save Social Security, believe me.
Because you have tremendous waste.
You have tremendous waste, fraud and abuse. That we’re taking care of. That we’re taking care of. It’s tremendous. We have in Social Security right now thousands and thousands of people that are over 106 years old. Now, you know they don’t exist. They don’t exist. There’s tremendous waste, fraud and abuse, and we’re going to get it. But we’re not going to hurt the people who have been paying into Social Security their whole life and then all of a sudden they’re supposed to get less. We’re bringing our jobs back. We’re going to make our economy great again.
I want everybody taken care of, but we have to take care of our people in this country. We’re not taking care of our people. We have no border. We have no control. People are flooding across. We can’t have it. We either have a border, and I’m very strongly — I’m not proposing. I will build a wall. I will build a wall.Remember this, the wall will be paid for by Mexico. We are not being treated right.
We are not being treated properly. If we don’t have borders, if we don’t have strength, we don’t have a country. People are flowing across. We have to take care of our people. Believe me.
When I announced that I was running for president on June 16th, illegal immigration wasn’t even a subject. If I didn’t bring it up, we wouldn’t even be talking. Now, I don’t often agree with Marco, and I don’t often agree with Ted, but I can in this case. The weakest person on this stage by far on illegal immigration is Jeb Bush. They come out of an act of love, whether you like it or not. He is so weak on illegal immigration it’s laughable, and everybody knows it.
Spend a little more money on the commercials...I don’t know what you’re talking about.
Two days ago he said he would take his pants off and moon everybody, and that’s fine. Nobody reports that. 
Give me a break...
You did say it, you did say it. 
Or a tax.
I would build consensus with Congress, and Congress would agree with me. I’ll give you an example, because I don’t like the idea of using executive orders like our president. It is a disaster what he’s doing. I would build consensus, but consensus means you have to work hard. You have to cajole. You have to get them into the Oval Office and get them all together, and you have to make deals.Let me just tell you, I mentioned before, China — big Chinese company bought the Chicago Exchange. Kerry is moving — and if you saw the people, because they have a video of the announcement that Carrier is moving to Mexico, O.K.?Well, I’ll tell you what. I would go right now to Carrier and I would say I am going to work awfully hard. You’re going to make air conditioners now in Mexico. You’re going to get all of these 1,400 people that are being laid off — they’re laid off. They were crying. They were — it was a very sad situation. You’re going to go to Mexico. You’re going to make air conditioners in Mexico, you’re going to put them across our border with no tax.I’m going to tell them right now, I am going to get consensus from Congress and we’re going to tax you when those air conditioners come. So stay where you are or build in the United States, because we are killing ourselves with trade pacts that are no good for us and no good for our workers.
John, in life you have flexibility. You do have flexibility. When you’re fighting wars, you’re going one way, you have a plan. It’s a beautiful plan. It can’t lose. The enemy makes a change, and all of a sudden you have to change.You have to have flexibility. In Ronald Reagan, though, in terms of what we’re talking about, was the great example. He was a somewhat liberal Democrat who became a somewhat, pretty strong conservative. He became — most importantly, he became a great president. He made many of the changes that I’ve made — I mean, I’ve seen as I grew up, I’ve seen, and as I get older and wiser, and I feel that I am a conservative.Now, I also feel I’m a common-sense conservative, because some of the views I don’t agree with. And I think a lot of people agree with me, obviously, based on what’s happening.
Well, I think these people always hit me with eminent domain, and frankly, I’m not in love with eminent domain. But eminent domain is something you need very strongly.When Jeb had said, “You used eminent domain privately for a parking lot.” It wasn’t for a parking lot. The state of New Jersey — too bad Chris Christie is not here, he could tell you — the state of New Jersey went to build a very large tower that was going to employ thousands of people.I mean, it was going to really do a big job in terms of economic development. Now, just so you understand, I got hit very hard. It’s private, it’s private eminent domain. You understand that they took over a stadium in Texas, and they used private eminent domain, but he just found that out after he made the charge.Yeah. Well, Jeb wouldn’t have known about it.
You shouldn’t have used it then, Jeb.
Thank you very much, I appreciate it.You probably are worse than Jeb Bush. You are single biggest liar. This guy’s lied — let me just tell you, this guy lied about Ben Carson when he took votes away from Ben Carson in Iowa, and he just continues. Today, we had robo-calls saying, “Donald Trump is not going to run in South Carolina,” where I’m leading by a lot.I’m not going to vote for Ted Cruz. This is the same thing he did to Ben Carson. This guy will say anything, nasty guy. Now I know why he doesn’t have one endorsement from any of his colleagues.
He’s a nasty guy.
Where did I support it?
Again, where did I support it?
Hey Ted, where I support it?
Where did I support?
That’s a lot of lies.
It does do wonderful things, but not as it relates to abortion.Excuse me. Excuse me, there are wonderful things having to do with women’s health.
But not when it comes to abortion.
Ted Cruz told your brother that he wanted John Roberts to be on the United States Supreme Court. They both pushed him, he twice approved Obamacare.
 O.K., governor.
You pushed him. You pushed him.
You worked with him and you pushed him. Why do you lie?
Why do you lie?
You pushed him.
Yeah, yeah, I know, you’re an adult.
Well, I would say my wife tells me I’m wrong all the time. And I listen.
Oh, let me just say — look, I am very open — I hired top people. I’ve had great success. I built a great, great company. I don’t need to do this. I’m self-funding. I’m spending a lot of money. I’ve spent — like in New Hampshire, I spent $3 million. Jeb bush spent $44 million. He came in five, and I came in No. 1.That’s what the country needs, folks. I spent 3, he spends 42 of their money, of special interest money. And it’s just — this is not going to make — excuse me. This is not going to make our country great again.This is not what we need in our country. We need people that know what the hell they’re doing. And politicians, they’re all talk, they’re no action. And that’s why people are supporting me.I do listen to people. I hire experts. I hire top, top people. And I do listen. And you know what? Sometimes they’re wrong. You have to know what to do, when to do it. But sometimes they’re wrong.
Well, I’ll tell you — over the years, I’ve made many speeches.
People have asked me, big companies have asked me to make speeches, and friends of mine that run big companies on success.And occasion, in order to sort of really highlight something, I’ll use a profanity. One of the profanities that I got credited with using, that I didn’t use, was a very bad word, two weeks ago, that I never used.I said, “You.” And everybody said “Oh, he didn’t say anything wrong.” But you bleeped it, so everyone thinks I said the — I didn’t say anything. I never said the word.It is very unfair, that criticism. Now, I will say this, with all of that being said, I have said I will not do it at all, because if I say a word that’s a little bit off color, a little bit, it ends up being a headline.I will not do it again. I was a very good student at a great school not using — by the way — not using profanity is very easy.That’s not — let me respond. That’s another lie. I never went bankrupt!
No, but it’s another lie.
No, but it’s another lie. This guy doesn’t know what he’s talking about. Just a lie.
Let me just tell you. Jeb goes around saying, just like the biggest business leaders in this country, I’ve used the laws of the land to chapter — I bought a company, I threw it immediately into a chapter, I made a great deal. I uses the laws to my benefit, because I run a company.
Excuse me, Jeb!
I never went bankrupt, never.Now — but you don’t want to say that. Now, let me just say, I’ve used it, just like the biggest leaders in the country. Let me tell you something — Florida. Florida, he put so much debt on Florida. You know, we keep saying he’s a wonderful governor, wonderful governor. He put so much debt on Florida, and he increased spending so much that as soon as he got out of office, Florida crashed.I happened to be there. It’s my second home. Florida crashed. He didn’t do a good job as governor.
And you haven’t — excuse me, you haven’t heard that. You listen to the good record in Florida. You take a look at what happened, as soon as that year ended he got out, Florida crashed. Too much debt.He loaded it up with debt, and his spending went through the roof.
By the way he was not a good governor.
Take a look at your numbers.
Florida went down the tubes right after he got out of office.
Went right down because of what he did to it.
Thank you.Politicians are all talk, no action. You’ve seen where they’ve take you to. We are 19 trillion dollars right now. It’s going to be increased with that horrible budget from a month ago that was just approved by politicians.We need a change. We need a very big change. We’re going to make our country great again.I say this every night, every day, every afternoon, and it’s so true — we don’t win anymore. We don’t win with health care, we don’t win with ISIS and the military, we don’t take care of our vets, we don’t care of our borders, we don’t win. We are going to start winning again. We are not going to be controlled by people that are special interests and lobbyists that everybody here has contributed to. And you know what, they do exactly what those folks want them to do.We are going to make our country great, and we’re going to do the right thing. I’m working for you. I’m not working for anybody else.Thank you very much.
Hello, everybody.Hello, Anderson. Nice to see you. 
Oh, the pope is a wonderful guy.A little surprise.Well, I didn't think it was a good thing for him to say, frankly. And he was talking about the border, and as you know, I'm very strong on border security, and we have to have a border in this country, and we certainly don't have one right now.And, as you know, we're talking about building a wall. We're gonna build a wall, and Mexico's gonna pay for the wall, and that's the way it is. They - you know, we have a trade balance, and - and if you look at it - imbalance of about $58 billion with Mexico.And it's really more than that, because we also subsidize, et cetera, et cetera, so they're gonna pay for the wall. But somehow, the government of Mexico spoke with the Pope - I mean, they spent a lot of time with the Pope - and by the time he left, he made a statement - I don't know...Absolutely. Well, I don't think they said that way. But I think they probably talked about isn't it terrible that Mr. Trump wants to have border security, et cetera, et cetera.And the Pope made the statement, and I think it was probably a little bit nicer statement than it was reported by you folks in the media, because after I read it, it was a little bit softer.But the bottom line is we've gotta have a border, we've gotta have security. We have tremendous illegal immigration in the country.And he also talked about having a wall is not Christian, and he's got an awfully big wall at the Vatican, I will tell you. So it's gonna be an interesting - how - how' he...And they're gonna come and go through the wall. I mean - you know, but they're gonna come and go legally. They're gonna do it legally. And that's what I want, and that's what a lot of people want, obviously, because they agree with me.I don't like fighting with the Pope, actually. I don't think this is a fight. I think he said something much softer than was originally reported by the media. I think tha he heard one side of the story, which is probably by the Mexican government.He didn't see the tremendous strain that - you know, the border's causing us with respect to illegal immigration, with the drugs pouring across the border.I mean, I - I just won the New Hampshire primary, and I will tell you these are amazing people. The biggest single problem that I had, no matter where I went in New Hampshire, was heroin, and it's pouring in. And it is just pouring into the area.And - you know, it's sort of funny, because you - you look at New Hampshire as being this beautiful, idyllic place - magnificent. I loved it. I love the people there. I love th whole place. And it's the last place you think that they'd really have a big drug problem.They have a massive drug problem, as you know. And it's always the first subject, no matter what I do - it's the first subject they want to talk about, and we've got to stop it And it's pouring in through the southern border, and we are going to stop it.Really? They're undecided?Well, that's a maybe, actually (ph).True. 
No. No, look. I have a lot of respect for the Pope. I think he's got a lot of personality. He's very different. He's a very different kind of a guy, and I think he's doing a very good job. He' - a lot of energy.But I would say that I think he was very much misinterpreted, and I also think he was given false information. If he would have heard our side - the side from people that live in the United States?I'll do it any time he wants. I mean, I think it would be very interesting. No, I like him. I mean, I like him as a personality, I like what he represents and I certainly have great respect for the position.Long time ago.Many, many years ago.I'm pro-life.But that's not the only thing. I mean, look - he has a problem with the truth. 
Well, it was totally Photoshopped. I could see by just looking at it. In fact, they even made Marco a lot shorter than he is, if you look at it really. And I'm sure that' probably the thing that bothered him the most.He was a hell of a lot - he was, like, very small. I mean, he's not that small. Not too big, but he's not so small. 
But - but I will tell you - I looked at that photo, I said immediately it was Photoshopped. But if you look what the he did - I'm talking about Cruz - to Ben Carson, where he said, "listen, he's out of the race. Everybody, come vote for us, he's out of the" - that was so dishonest.And then he did something else that you people never picked up on, and I think it was the worst of all. He did a voter violation notice. It looked like it's right out of the IRS.The official paper - it was so disgusting. And it's basically you have a voter violation.Now, they don't have lawyers. These are people that were frightened when they got it. And it graded them. And you have an F, F, F, F. And essentially, it says if you vote fo Ted Cruz, this violation is going to go away. And let me tell you something, people voted for him because of that. That was a fraudulent document.And he said things about me. For instance, I'm very strong on the Second Amendment. He said, "Donald Trump will leave the Second Amendment; he's going to destroy th Second Amendment; you're not going to have a Second Amendment." There's even one going up now in Nevada. He's got something about land - that I'm for taking back the land.I have nothing to do with it. He - he will make up stories. And you know, he holds up the Bible and then he lies. I think it's very inappropriate. 
Well, you don't know that. But I like to send letters.I have a lot of lawyers. I have wonderful lawyers. I like to send letters. But you know what?It's good that people know. And I think it's probably - it's probably affected him because I know the CBS poll just came out a little while ago, New York Times-CBS, and I mean, my numbers are fantastic. I think it had an impact...But he's not saying that. He's saying, "I am." And you take a look at the words he says, when he goes around talking to people, he uses that. That was - what? - 1 or 19 years ago. That was a long time ago. It was with Tim Russert, who by the way, was a great guy. We miss Tim Russert. I really liked him a lot. But it was with TimRussert. And you've got explain my views now, too. You can't say, "I am," because he would say "I am." And that's what he was doing when he went out to audiences, and it's just not true.And as far as Second Amendment, I'm the strongest person running on the Second Amendment. And he would say - you know, he'd just make up stories. So it was inappropriate, Anderson, and we'll see what happens. Who knows? I mean, I think he's got other cases. I think the wonderful case is going to be whether or not, and Iunderstand he got sued today actually. He's going to be sued by a lot of people and he's going to be sued by the Democrats if he ever got the nomination, which I don't thin he will. Honestly, I don't think he will.But if he ever got the - I don't think - I don't think he's got a very good chance of getting it. But he was sued today on the fact that he was born in Canada. It's a big problem 
A problem for the party, for the Republican Party.I'm not a bully. No, I'm not a bully at all. I don't think I'm a bully at all. I built a great company. I filed as, you know, when I did my file, everyone said I wasn't going to run, then I ran. Then I signed certain documents. Everyone said, you'll never sign - you know, you'll basically sign your life away - form A or whatever it's called.signed form A. It's like, you know, they said, "Wow, he signed that."Then they said, "Well, he'll never put in his financials because maybe they're not as good." Turned out they're much better than anybody ever even envisioned. And I built great company.You have to be - you have to have a certain personality to build - I have some of the greatest assets in the world, very low debt, tremendous cash flow. I mean, it's a truly great company.Yeah, maybe to China.No, I would be. I would be sending them to China to stop ripping us off. I would be sending them to other countries to stop ripping us off. I'd send them to Mexico. And when I say cease and desist, maybe it's equivalent, OK? Maybe I do it with my mouth. Of course. Look, our country is going to hell. We have a problem with China. We have a problem with Japan. We have a problem with Mexico both at the border and in trade. Carrier just announced they're moving to - Carrier Air Conditioner - I buy them all the time. I'm not going to buy them anymore, by the way. I buy thousands. They're moving to Mexico. I saw the clip. I saw the boss say, "We're closing up; we're moving to Mexico."What do we get out of it? They're moving to Mexico. Now, they're going to make air conditioners, sell them to us, no tax, no nothing. We get nothing out of it. By the way, if we said, "Guess what? You're going to have to pay a 35 percent tax to get them through the border." They wouldn't even move. 
Oh, that's too bad.Thank you.Good. Then you know. 
Where are you from?Totally different.OK.I appreciate the question, actually. It's a great question.First of all, when it comes to - you know, some people say, oh, Trump is tough and I thought I did a great debate the other night. Time Magazine and everybody thought that I won. Drudge thought I won. You know, they do the polls after the debate. I thought I did a great debate, but some people thought I was too tough.I said, wait a minute. I have Jeb Bush and I have all these guys coming at me from 15 different angles, and you have to be tough and we have to be tough to protect our country.I have a great temperament. You don't build a great company and especially a company with very little debt and all of the kinds of things that I have, and I have employees that have been with me for many, many years. I mean, long-term employees. They're really great people and they've been with me for a long time.But we need a certain toughness. Look, we have ISIS chopping off people's heads, Christians' heads, everybody else's heads, drowning people in cages. You've never seen this is like medieval times. We need a certain toughness.I know that Hillary said I don't like Donald trump's tone. Tone? They're chopping off the heads of people. This hasn't happened since medieval times. We need certain toughness, and if we don't have the toughness, we're not going to end up with a country. You know, we're going to let people come into this country, they're going to be ISISor ISIS-related and we're going to have problems like you've never seen.You had a problem where you had two radicalized, probably she came in radical, radicalized him, the two - the married couple, the young couple. They killed 14 people. They killed 14 people. They killed people, and you understand what I'm talking about in California, they killed people that give them wedding parties. People that they knevery well. People that they worked with. People that they actually get along with. They killed them. There's something going on. We need a certain toughness. We have weak people leading our country.It would be - yeah. You and I have had this conversation. Yeah sure. Look, I went to the best school, I was a good student and all of this stuff. I mean, I'm a smart person. I - my uncle was one of the top people at MIT, he was a great professor at MIT.I - like, you know, Like - it's a smart family, OK? I know - I can be more politically correct than anybody that you've ever interviewed. You'd probably say, boy, that was a boring interview. But I can be very - I can do whatever I want.I have Palm Beach, I have Maralago. I deal with society. Society loves me, and I can act differently for different people. But we don't have time to be totally politicall correct in this country. Our country is in serious, serious trouble.Let me give you one example, though, about toughness. So we have the Democrats and the Republicans, corporate inversions. There's trillions of dollars that cannot get back into this country. The Democrats agree it should come back in, the Republicans agree. This isn't something like a health care or whatever that they don't agree. This is something - trillions. They say 2.5 trillion, I say it's more than $5 trillion.Carl Icahn endorsed me. He's a great guy, he's a tough guy. I would get him involved in things. We'll get the smartest business leaders involved. But we have this 2.5 to $5 trillion outside of the country. The Republicans want it in, the Democrats want it in. They can't make a deal. They can't make a deal because there's no leader.I would put these people in a room, and within 10 minutes, I'd have a deal. They all want it. This is something that - not where there's a dispute, they all want it. There's no leadership. Maybe they don't work hard enough, I don't know what it is. No, I believe in compromise where I win, OK?Yes, can you win. I mean, look. Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan, they ran a pretty good ship and they did well and everybody was happy. The country wasn't base on executive orders. Right now, Obama goes around signing executive orders. He can't even get along with the Democrats, and he goes around signing all these executiveorders. It's a basic disaster. You can't do it.But here's the thing. Corporate inversion. We have companies, great companies leaving the United States. You know, it used to be they'd leave New York for Florida or they'd leave some place for Texas or some other place, right? But we have great companies leaving this country. The great drug companies are leaving, many of them, they're going to Ireland. I mean, we're having announcements where thousands and thousands of jobs and greats companies are leaving. We can't let that happen.And they're leaving for two reasons, lower taxes, and my plan - under my tax plan, the taxes are much, much lower for the middle class and also for corporations. But very importantly, they're leaving to get back money. They are leaving to get the money that they can't bring back into this country.I like - I like right from the beginning. Thank you, Todd (ph). You're doing the right thing.You're right.Right. A hundred percent.OK ...OK. Great question. First of all, Obamacare as you know is a disaster. Your rates are going up 25, 35, 45, 55 percent. It's going to fail in '17 anyway unless as usual the Republicans bail them out. We know where the Democrats are coming from but the Republicans have been so weak.The budget they passed four weeks ago is a - they call it the omnibus budget. It gives Obama everything he wanted. It gives him money to bring in people from Syria that we have no idea who they are or where they are, et cetera which is a disaster. We can't afford to do that.It gives money for illegal immigration, for letting people come in illegally into this country. The whole thing is a disaster and the Republicans passed it. With health care, w have repeal and replace Obamacare.A health care savings accounts which are great. We would do that or we're going to have and probably - and - you can say and/or - what I really like is the - I'm a self-funder. I'm not taking any money, OK? I'm not taking money from the insurance companies so I can do what's right.I can do what's right for the people, I can do - and this is something that I think I've been given credit for. I don't think I've been given enough credit because I have turned down hundreds of millions of dollars. I could take - if Jeb Bush raised $148 million put it in a fund it's like throwing it out the window what he did with it.I would have had 500 - I would have had $1 billion - I have people asking me, "please let me give you" - I'm doing it all myself. What happened is we have lines around each state. It makes it impossible for people to bid to - for insurance companies to bid within those states. The insurance company would have a monopoly - would rather have a monopoly on here or New York or on Iowa or on any other place than be able to bid all over that United States.Because they make much more money that way. What we do and the insurance companies take care of the politicians. They're giving the politicians - most of the guys that I'm running against are getting money from insurance companies and they're getting money from - by the way other companies. Drug companies, pharmaceutical companies.They give tremendous amounts of money to the people that I'm negotiating against, that I'm debating against, the people that are on the stage, the people that are in Congress, the Senators. So what I'm saying is this, we have to get rid of the lines. We have to create competition. When you do that you will have the best health care you'v ever, ever had.And it'll be at a reasonable cost. They almost got rid of the lines when they were doing Obamacare but it didn't happen. Because the insurance companies have too many of the Senators under control.You understand what I mean. There's no competition. 
Thank you ...Well I like the mandate. OK. So here's where I'm a little bit different. I don't want people dying on the streets and I say this all the time. And I say this - look, I di five speeches, maybe six speeches today. We had a lot of rallies. We had of thousands and thousands of people. We get big crowds.Every time I talk about this I get standing ovations. The Republican people, they're wonderful people. They don't want people dying on the streets. Sometimes they'll say Donald Trump wants single payer because there's a group of people - as good as these plans are and by the way your insurance will go way down, you'll have better plans, you'll get your own doctor which Obama lied. Remember this ...Yes. Obama lied when he said you're going to keep your plan, you're going to keep your doctor, you got to - it was a pure lie. And frankly, many Democrats went along only because they believed him. He lied 28 times he said it. Twenty-eight times.If that were in the private sector you'd be sued for fraud, OK? He lied to get the plan through. He got it through and it's turned out to be a disaster. The wrong people are buying it, you know what's happening. It's dead. It's going to - look, Obamacare is dead.It's going to be repealed, it's going to be replaced. But I will say this, Anderson. If we don't do something quickly you're going to have a health care that you - like you've never seen before in this country.Now, the new plan is good. It's going to be inexpensive. It's going to be much better for the people. But there's going to a group of people at the bottom - people that haven' done well. People that don't have any money that won't be able to be care of.We're going to take care of them through maybe concepts of Medicare. We have hospitals that aren't doing well, we have doctors that aren't doing well. You cann let people die on the street, OK?Now, some people would say, "that's not a very Republican thing to say." Every time I say this at a rally, or even today, I said it - once, it got a standing ovation.I said, you know, the problem is everybody thinks that you people, as Republicans, hate the concept of taking care of people that are really, really sick and are gonna die.That's not single payer, by the way. That's called heart. We gotta take care of people that can't take care of themselves. But the plans will be much less expensive than Obamacare, they'll be far better than Obamacare, you'll get your doctor, you'll get everything that you want to get. It'll be unbelievable.But you've gotta get rid of the lines. You gotta have competition. Those people that are left - we've gotta help them live. And everybody likes it when I say it, and that includes Republicans. And it's not single payer.Hello, Orrin. Nice to see you.I should have done it. We would have had Obama for four years instead of for eight years. Right? 
I am running. I am running.Actually, this may be better timing for me.
Right.OK.Sure.Go ahead. Sure.OK.Well, a lot of people agree with what I said. And I'm not talking about lying, I'm not talking about not lying. Nobody really knows why we went into Iraq. The Iraqis did not knock down - it was not Saddam Hussein that knocked down the World Trade Center, OK? 
Well, there are a lot of people that think that. There are a lot of people that think - look, bottom line, there were no weapons of mass destruction. They said, "ther are weapons of mass destruction." I was against the war when it started.Well, look, I'm not going to get your vote, but that's OK. 
Let me - let me tell you something. I'll tell you it very simply. It may have been the worst decision - going into Iraq may have been the worst decision anybody has made, any president has made in the history of this country. That's how bad it is, OK?The migration that you see today, the destruction of Europe, with Angela Merkel allowing millions of people coming into Germany. I have people from Germany - they want to leave Germany.These are people, two years ago, that would - who'd do nothing but talk about how they love their country, Germany. They're gonna leave Germany. Many, many people ar leaving Germany. You're gonna end up with big problems in Germany.You look at Sweden, the other day - you look at Brussels - I was in Brussels years ago. It was one of the most beautiful - now it's like an armed camp. So crazy, what they'v done.All of this is the - everything that's happening started with stupidly going into the war in Iraq. Now, Iraq - we have - and people talk about me with the button - I'm the one that doesn't want do this, OK? I'm the one, from 2002, 2003, said you shouldn't be doing it.Here's - here's what happens. We have spent $2 trillion in Iraq - in fighting Iraq. Two trillion. Two trillion. Thousands of lives, right. We have wounded warriors, who I love all over the place, who say the most incredible - these are braver than all of us in this room put together.I look at the attitude, and I work with them, and these are great people. We got nothing. We have nothing. We're not even there - we can't even make a phone call right now...Let me tell you, do I know?I can tell you this. I can - I don't - whether he lied or not, he went into Iraq. It was a horrible decision, OK. And Iraq did not knock down the World Trade Center.Where did these people go when they got on the airplanes? You know where they went? Do you know where they went? They went - a lot of them went to Saudi Arabia, OK? They didn't go back to Iraq. They went to Saudi Arabia.Now, there are sealed documents right now that nobody wants to allow to be opened that talk very much about this subject. I'd like to see what it says.I will say this - Bush felt very - and Saddam Hussein overplayed his hand, because he was - you know, he - senior Bush did the right thing. He knocked the heck out of him and then he pulled back, OK? He didn't get into the quagmire. And that was OK to do.The problem is Saddam Hussein said, "I drove them back. I drove the Americans back." He really overplayed his hand. And frankly, I think the son, being loyal to the fathe - I think he really wanted to go into Iraq, even if it wasn't the right thing to do.He went into Iraq. He started something that destroyed the Middle East. And I said, "Don't go in because you're going to ruin the balance in the Middle East; you're going to have a total imbalance; you're going to have Iran taking over Iraq." Everything I said turned out to be true.Iran is now taking over Iraq. So - and they wanted to do it for years and years years. They're going to walk in.So, not only do we make a horrible, horrible deal where we're giving Iran $150 billion. We got nothing for it. We get our prisoners back. They should have been given bac to us three years ago, four years ago. We shouldn't have even started negotiating until we got our prisoners back. And we would have had it that way.But here's the problem. So, we make all bad deals. The war in Iraq started the whole destabilization of the Middle East. It started ISIS. It started Libya. It started Syria. Tha was one of the worst decisions ever made by any government at any time.In all fairness, Bush made the decision. Just one thing. And Barack Obama - Barack Obama, as bad as he is, and he's bad - but he got us out the wrong way. He should hav left people there. And he should have done it differently. And he shouldn't have said, "We're getting out at a specific time."He gave a specific date, as you know, to get out. So bad. So bad.I don't know what he did. I just know it was a terrible mistake.I'd have to see the exact words. Look, I don't know. I would probably say that something was going on. I don't know why he went in. I don't know why he went in Because honestly, there was no reason to go in. They didn't knock down the World Trade Center. It wasn't Iraq that knocked it down.I don't know. I can't tell you. I'd have to look at some documents.Yes?Yeah, but I don't necessarily - you know, Carl's a very successful businessman. What I'd really love Carl to do is check out how are we doing in trade with China, pal.I'd like him negotiating. 
I have other friends. I have some of the greatest businessmen in the world. They're all calling me now because they say, "Wow, this could happen." And they're al calling me.We have the greatest business people in the world in this country. We don't use them. We use political hacks to negotiate with China, with Japan. We have Caroline Kenned negotiating car deals and trade deals with - and she doesn't even know. Caroline Kennedy got to be the ambassador of Japan.No, not necessarily. I want the best people. Honestly, I want the greatest negotiators. We can't lose $505 billion next year with China. 
I like that. Yeah, and then you make the decision. I think I'm very open to that. I like that. I've always liked that. I'm fine with it. I want the most talented people. We have the greatest negotiators in the world. I told you before. We have a trade deficit with Mexico - $58 billion. You know, when they say you won't build a wall. The wall is going to cost $12 billion. It's peanuts compared to what we lose. OK?That's why Mexico is going to pay. 
I know they do. And it was Calderon the other day, who is the past president, but Calderon the other day said, "We will not pay." So the newspapers called me up They said, "He said - Calderon said we will not pay. What does that mean? What are you going to say?" I said, "The wall just got 10 feet higher."Thank you.No. But, I mean, I could - I could have said that. Nobody asked me - I wasn't a politician. It was probably the first time anybody asked me that question.  
But by the time the war started - that was quite a bit before the war started.By the time the war started, I was against the war. And there are articles - I mean, there are headlines in 2003, 2004 that I was totally against the war. And actually a couple of people in your world in terms of the pundits, said, you know, there' definite proof in 2003, 2004 Trump was against it.Which is OK. A lot of people said - you know, it was so early that even if it was a little bit after the war, I mean, he was totally against the war. I was very much against it. That was probably the first time I was ever even asked about the war. Howard, who's a great guy, by the way. A lot of people don't understand that. 
He's a great - he's a great interview. He's a very talented guy and a good. But that was probably the first time - I don't remember that, but it was probably the first time I was asked about it.And, you know, when you're in - when you're in the private sector - yeah, I may have. When you're in the private sector, you know, you get asked things and, you know, you're not a politician and probably the first time I was asked. By the time the war started, I was against it. And shortly thereafter, I was really against it.Hi Ryan.Thank you. Me too.Well, I don't know that it has to do with the general election. I have found this process amazingly interesting. Because, you know, I've never done this. I've been doing this for seven months. And I've been giving credit. We're doing really nicely. And it's been very interesting for me.But I will tell you, I've said a couple of times, one of my faults is I will put up with people and deception, even though I know they're deceiving, too long. And - but when get - when I, you know, get to it, I'm too tough. In other words, too long, and then instead of just sort of forgetting about it, and especially things that don't matter that much I never forget. I don't forget.I don't think you forget either, to be honest with you, but I don't forget. And, you know, my wife will tell me sometimes, "You're - sometimes you'll go too long, but then when it gets bad, it's like...I do. I hold onto stuff. And I'd rather not hold onto stuff. But if I've been deceived in anyway, or if something happens, I really don't forget. Sometimes you're better off forgetting. And in other cases, it's not such a bad habit. You know, you learn.Because usually with people, and I talk a lot about success. Friends of mine ask me, would you speak about success or whatever? And a lot of people pay me a lot of mone to do it, and we give it to charity and we have a lot of fun with it.But a lot of people ask me that. And you don't want to necessarily - you want to remember when people deceive you once, usually that same person will do it again, becaus that's a trait that they have. So, it's not so bad, but I would say I hold on too long and I never forget. And sometimes forgetting is not a bad thing.I hope that makes sense. COOPER: This is Michael Letz (ph). He's been a Republican activist for over 30 years. He is also undecided, like many people in the state. Michael?Thank you.You're right. I am a big, big supporter of the police. I think the police are being treated horribly in this country. And certainly, you have some bad acts and you have bad mistakes made on occasion. It's a tiny fraction compared to the great work that they do.So I am without question a huge supporter of the police. We wouldn't be sitting here right now. We wouldn't have a safe society, really. You look at what's happening aroun the world. We wouldn't have as safe society. So I can tell you right now, I - I assume you are also, you're with me on this. I am a tremendous supporter of the police. And Ithink they are mistreated and misunderstood. And I think we should give them much more credit than we have given them.I have not.She's very smart.So, my sister is a brilliant woman who was always a fabulous student, very, very smart. She was appointed by Ronald Reagan. He said appointed by Bill Clinton. She was elevated to the Court of Appeals, a very high position, right under the Supreme Court, as you know.She was elevated to the Court of Appeals by Clinton; appointed by Reagan, elevated - and the reason she was elevated, she was an outstanding intellect and an outstanding judge. I don't even know what her views are on abortion. I really don't. She is certainly not a radical anything, because that's not her thing. But this is the kind of thing he said "radical this, this, this on abortion."She's not radical. She may have made a decision one way or the other. I never asked her. I wouldn't ask her. She wouldn't want to tell me. I know I got a very big call from very great reporter actually at the New York Times. And they wanted to do a major piece on my sister. And they called me. Could I possibly get her to do the piece? I calleher. She said, "No, no, I don't do that; I don't want a piece; I don't want anything to do with it; I don't want any..."And they did the piece anyway. It was a very nice piece on her - but she refused to partake. She has no interest in that. In fact, I said, "are you sure my - you're my sister?"The reporter actually said, "could this be possible?"I don't like - you know, you wouldn't believe it. I get a lot of publicity. I don't necessarily like it.No, it's true. It's true.You know what, it's true. I don't love that. I can't stand - look, for the most part I find the press is extremely dishonest, OK? Very dishonest. I find the political press to be unbelievably dishonest.And 25 percent are great. Of course, you're in that category. He did a great interview with me two weeks ago that I really liked. I thought it was really a great interview because, based on an article a little bit - in the Wall Street Journal, by Monica, who's a terrific person.But - but my sister is a great intellect. She is a terrific person. She's not radical anything. I don't know what she did, having to do with - with abortion. But she's a great judge.I would have such a conflict of interest - and I think you probably went back and you checked. I do say sometimes - and I joke. I say, "my sister should be on the" (inaudible). You know, I'm laughing and having fun. But I would never do a thing like that because it's a conflict of interest.Yeah. It's a - and I don't think she'd want to do it either.I do, sometimes. 
You know, I'm a big - I'm a person - they can't sort of believe it. But I'm a person that - I like cleanliness, I like clean. And the one thing about the big franchises you have to have a certain - you know, because of the importance.One bad hamburger, you can destroy McDonald's. One bad hamburger, you take Wendy's and all these other places, and they're out of business. You can't do it. I mean, I don't want to mention the name of the firm, but you see what a certain firm is going through right now. I mean - I don't know. Do they make it? Do they not make it?So I'm a very - I'm a very clean person. I like cleanliness, and I think you're better off going there than, maybe, someplace that you have no idea where the food's coming from. It's a certain standard.But I think the food's good. And I eat it very carefully. You know, I do as good as - as well as I can. But I think all of those places - Burger King, McDonald's, I can - I can live with them. I had - the other night, I had Kentucky Fried Chicken. Not the worst thing in the world.Not the worst thing in the world. 
Well, I think Elton John is great, I think the Stones are great. The Beatles, I love. Michael Jackson was a - actually a very good friend of mine. I knew Michael Jackson very well. Lived in Trump Tower for a long period of time, would go down to Mar-a-Lago.He actually got married - you know, Lisa Marie Presley - the whole big deal at Mar-a-Lago - they were in the tower. And I will tell you, he was up there one week with her and he never came down, so I don't know what was going on, but they got along.You know, a lot of people say, "they didn't really" - they were up there for a week. They never, ever came - I said, "where the hell is Michael? I've - nobody's seen" - but - but he was a very talented guy. One of the truly most talented people.I knew him very well. I knew the real story of Michael Jackson. You know, When he died, I would watch people get on - I don't - I don't want to mention names, but peopl that you know very well and people that you interview - and they would talk about Michael Jackson.They didn't even know him. I mean, very few people got to know Michael Jackson. But he was an unbelievably talented guy. He lost his confidence. And - he lost tremendous confidence because of, honestly, bad, bad, bad surgery.He had the worst - he had people that did numbers on him that were just unbelievable - facially, and - you know, the plastic surgeons. But Michael was an unbelievable talent who actually lost his confidence. And - you know, believe it or not, when you lose your confidence in something, you can even lose your talent.I do like it. I - I actually get criticized for it. But I do watch it. I watch you a lot, and I watch other people. And you learn. I mean, especially with what I'm doing.Somebody said, you watch, you get your generals through television. Well, I don't. I read a lot. OK? I love to read. But, you know, when I see you interviewing a general, or a - some security adviser or somebody, I mean, you learn a lot from that. 
And - and by the way - about three to four hours a night. 
It's all I need, luckily. I mean...yeah, pretty much. I'll tell you what - I honestly believe this - I love what I do. I love my business, I love - The Apprentice was such a tremendous success. NB would have done anything to renew it with me. I mean, anything.Steve Burke came up to my office, the head of Comcast, and he said, "please, do it, do it, do it." I said, "I'm gonna run for" - you can't run for president and have a show. It' - you know, the equal time provisions, et cetera, et cetera.I said no, Steve, I'm not going to do it. They couldn't believe it, because they really didn't believe - nobody believed I was going to run, you know.My wife actually said if you run, you will win. But you have to actually run. You can't just say you're going to run because you won't do well. You know, the polls were - th original polls, nobody believed I was going to run. Even when they say if he runs, and they wouldn't even do polls.But she said if you run, you'll win. And Steve Burke came up to the office, he said, I really - you know, they wanted to renew The Apprentice because it was doing phenomenally well. Even after - can you believe it - 14 seasons, 14 seasons and The Apprentice still did well. But I'm not doing - you know, I have that with Mark Burnett and we're using Arnold Schwarzenegger, and hopefully, Arnold's going to do. Is Arnold going to do well? What do you think?Will he beat Trump?He's no Trump, right?So I get credit for my children. My children are very good children. They were smart, they went to good schools, they did well. Ivanka everybody knows, and the Don and Eric and then I have two younger - Tiffany, who's a terrific young woman, and she - she's just graduated from Penn and did mostly A's. And Baron is doing really good.So I have five children. But one thing I think I was really, really a good parent because I put my children above everything, above the business, above everything. And Ivanka speaks to it very well and so do the others. But when people come up and they say why, I would say from the time - because I had so much - I had so much experience with alcohol because I have a brother, who is a phenomenal guy, the best looking guy you've ever seen, but he became - he started drinking and I saw from ayoung age, he was quite a bit older than me. 
My brother Fred. He was - he was a very talented flyer of planes, it was - I mean, great pilots would go to him to study. I mean, it was a real ability he had. 
He said no - don't you ever smoke. He said don't you ever smoke, don't you ever drink. And I've never had a drink. You know, I've never had drink and I've never had a cigarette. Those are the good things, I don't want to tell you the bad things. There are plenty of bad things. But I never had a drink, I never had -you know, I never had - 
No, I just - I mean, I never liked the taste. I've had friends - when I want to the Wharton School of Finance, I've had friends that didn't like scotch, they hated the taste. And one in particular, became pretty successful, but ultimately alcohol destroyed him. He would be with me - we're like 18 or 19 years old, and he was trying to develop a taste for scotch, he ultimately became an alcoholic. He became quite successful, lost the success because of alcohol.I've seen what it does to people, it's a horror show. And the one thing I can say is if you don't drink, there's no temptation. But people come up to me and they say could yo see my children? You know, because my children are doing a good job. You know, famous last words. Where's wood? Is that wood? Yes. OK, I'm going to knock on wood,OK, because who knows. But my children are doing a good job and they're solid.But I would tell them from a very young age, no drugs, no alcohol, no cigarettes. I'd say this so - over and over. In fact, Ivanka sometimes would be like Dad, you're drivin me crazy. You know, she was like 4 years old, she didn't even know what it was. No drugs, no alcohol, no cigarettes.
And I just put it into them because I've seen people that are really brilliant, people that you know, people - the top people in industry, they have children, they're very smart children, they have all the aptitude in the world but they get hooked on drugs, they get hooked on alcohol and they - alcohol believe it or not is almost harder than drugs, bu it's harder to get away from it. But they get hooked on alcohol, they get hooked on drugs and as smart as they are, they never make it.Well, I mean, look. I mean - a vice. I work very hard. Maybe I work too hard. I have - I had two very, you know, wonderful women frankly, that I am a worker. I love to work. I don't consider myself like a workaholic. I'm a workaholic, but I don't consider that a bad thing. And I think probably I would have had - I wouldn't have - I have a very good marriage now, Melania is fantastic.But I had two women that I never blamed because I worked so hard that my job came first. Never came first with my children. I always said I was a better - I would say this I was a better father than I was a husband.But I worked very, very hard and I love doing it, and you know what I'm very happy about, I have tens of thousands of employees. I've put so many - I've had thousands an thousands of employees and that takes care of health care, it takes care of education, takes care of so many things.So not that I'd change anything, but it I did a little bit less, probably wouldn't have had two marriages that didn't work out. 
Thank you very much.
Great to be back.I thought I did great in that debate. I actually had a great performance --A meltdown. I saw -- no. I thought it was good. I was being hit from every side. It was tough. I was -- you said I was too tough but I thought I had to be tough. I thought I did well. "Drudge" and "Time Magazine" said I won that debate so I'm not going to dispute the fact. 
I don't think he ever has a good night.He has some big problems.Sure.Right.OK.I don't attack John McCain, actually. I do attack people when I'm attacked. I have -- I don't care too much about Jeb except he spent $22 million on negative ads. Every time I turn on a television I see a negative ad. He's got money from all of the different donors and special interests and lobbyists. And they put a lot of negative ads and that's Jeb more so than anybody else.So I hit Jeb because he's sort of easy to hit to be honest with you. If he weren't doing the negative ads I wouldn't even be talking about Jeb to be honest with you. And now, Ted -- we go back and forth but Ted -- what he did to Ben Carson I thought was disgraceful in Iowa. When he said he was out of the race. Essentially he said he was out of the race and this race is over. Come with me, come with me.I thought that was bad. I thought the voter violation fraud document that he did was -- I thought it was horrendous. And he's told lies. He tell lies. In fact, your friend Rubio -- you like him very much, I know that. But he came out and he accused Ted of being a liar.And I said, oh good. That's good because now I can do it also. It's just perfect. OK.Well, I think most of these polls were taken after the debate and they worked out good for me. And it was taken after the debate. I have never done well in the Wall Street Journal poll. I think somebody at Wall Street Journal doesn't like me but I never do well with the Wall Street Journal poll.
So I don't know. They do these small samples and I don't know exactly what it represents. But I am really honored by those poll results. Those are great poll results overall.Well, look, I've had great success in business. I've had great success with law suits. I've had great success in things I do and I don't know that we're going to have a law suit. But we certainly want to keep somebody honest and he makes statements about -- like as an example I'm pro-life and he said he's not pro-life.He can't say that. It's like saying -- no, but it's the same thing --No, that's true and so was Ronald Reagan likewise so --It changed years ago and what happened is I saw things with people and people that I know and people that I respect that made me change. Ronald Reagan changed. If you look at Reagan --He said he evolved. He used that expression.Ronald Reagan actually used to be a fairly liberal Democrat and he began a fairly conservative conservative. I mean, fairly. 
That's fine.Good.OK. So if you look at me as a conservative, OK? And I'm sure that that's necessarily the most important word but I say I'm a common sense conservative. I'm the most conservative on the border. Nobody tougher than me on the border. In fact, Sheriff Joe just endorsed me from Arizona and when he endorses you you're pretty conservative, you're pretty good on the border.I think I'm the strongest on the military -- most conservative on the military, strongest on the military. The best with the vets. I have more veteran support than anybody else by far. We're going to get rid of common core. I'm very conservative on that issue.Common core is going. We're going to have local education. It's going to be much better, much less expensive.On the second amendment I am absolutely the strongest in the group on the second amendment --Right.Yes, I would --Yes, I would. And I talk about it all the time.Absolutely --Correct --Correct --I give that commitment right now. Absolutely. And I've been very strong. I'm a member of the NRA. My sons, Don and Eric are members of the NRA for a long time. They're hunters, they're great members of the NRA. If in -- if you take California. If it -- excuse me. If in California we had somebody having guns on the other side. We had the two radicalized people and if we had guns on the other side -- bullets coming the other way you wouldn't have had the 14 people killed. The best example is not this country.Paris has the toughest gun laws in the world they say. France has the toughest gun laws as a country they say. If you take France and all the bad guys have the guns. Nobody had guns in the room. They sent into the various rooms people. A hundred and thirty people killed.It was like come on over here, boom. Come on over here, boom. If people on the other side had guns, Joe, it wouldn't have been that way. And people really seriously wounded. It was many more people in Paris.But you look at it. If they had guns on the other side with the bullets flying the other way -- and I have this argument with people all the time from New York. Because a lot of New York they say, "get rid of the guns." The fact is, they can't argue. They can't beat me in the argument.It's impossible to beat and then the next day I'll say so did I convince you? They always say no. They always say no.OK.I don't think he does at all. I tell you what if I would have run four years ago he wouldn't be president right now. I don't think he thinks that at all. It's very interesting. It's very interesting with President Obama. Going to go down as one of the worst presidents in the history of this country.He was -- has been a disaster on the military. You look at what -- we can't beat ISIS. He's been a disaster on health care because Obama's got to be repealed and replaced. And I'm just talking about not even from my standpoint. Rates are going up, your premiums are going up -- 25, 35, 45, 55 percent. People are getting killed --He lied about -- repeal and replace. Absolutely --Health care savings plans, one way. We have to get rid of the lines between states. I do tremendous health care.I have so many employees. I have thousands of employees. I've employed tens of thousands of people. I built an unbelievable business and one thing that has come out when I filed the documents with the FEC in terms of my business --I built an unbelievable business. So I have tremendous numbers of people --Joe, we have to get rid of the lines. There's a line --We have to.Joe, Americans aren't getting health care lately. Sure. Sure.Let me tell you, that's not what I said. That's not what I said. Here's what I said. We're going to have great plans. They're going to be much less expensive and they're going to be much better because the Obama plan is unaffordable and it's a disaster.And by the way in '17 it's going to die unless the Republicans continue to fund money like -- it's not affordable by the country, not affordable by the people. But what I say is this, we're going to have great plans. But there will be a group of people that is not doing well, that has no money. We cannot let them die in the streets.And we'll work out either through Medicare which we'll save or something. We will work out a plan where instead of having people dying in the streets. And I say to the Republicans all the time. And by the way I get standing ovations from Republicans, from Republican groups. I got one yesterday.I said we can't let people die in the streets. We got to work out a deal with the hospital or with somebody in that community where if somebody is sick and really sick. And they don't have housing and they don't have --All -- we can't let them die.We're going to take care of them. We're going to take care of them. We have to take care of them. Now, that's not single payer. That's not anything. That's just human decency. And I'll tell you what. Every single time I say that, I say to people in the audience -- I say, "so what do you think?" They all stand up and give me a standing ovation, OK?So some people would take that and they'll say, "oh, that's terrible." That's -- what we're going to have is we're going to have private plans, we're going to have maybe the health care savings plans which are very good. We're going to get rid of the lines.You know what happens when you get rid of the lines? You have tremendous competition and the price goes way down. The reason the lines are there is because the insurance companies are making a fortune having monopolies in the various states. And --OK.No, I understand.I'm really speaking to the American people. Look, Jeb brought his brother in to help. He needed -- he brought his mom in and he brought his brother, OK?I don't know who else he's going to bring in but he needs help. And he brought his brother in and once he brought his -- like, four weeks ago Hilary brought in Bill. And I hit them because I thought it was appropriate to hit them. Because once they're in now the brother came in.So when Jeb at the Reagan museum came out and he said very strongly, "my brother protected us and he protect us." And he meant he protected us after the World Trade Center came down. They forgot one thing. What about during when the World Trade Center came down --I'm not blaming anybody --I'm not blaming anybody but if you go back and you'll see the CIA and the NSA and all of the other groups, they were not getting together, Joe. They were not doing well. They hated each other, the top people hated each other, they weren't talking. They had a lot of intelligence, they knew something bad was going to happen. I'm not blaming anybody.You were the one that pointed out two years before the World Trade Center came down I in my book was talking about Osama Bin Laden. And I'm not a politician. I wasn't a politician so if I know about Osama Bin Laden why didn't the government know about --I will tell you this, I will tell you -- I will have more cross-over votes. If I get the nomination, I will have more cross-over votes than anybody that's ever run for office. I will have Democrat votes, I will have independent votes. I will do tremendously with cross- over. One other thing. I will have states that nobody ever thought of getting in terms of a Republican. 
I have a chance at New York. I think I have a great chance at Michigan. States that are not in your six states that we always talk about with the Ohio -- that sort of you can get. I'll definitely get Pennsylvania, I'll get Ohio. I think I'm going to win Florida. You see how I'm doing in Florida --But I'll get states like a Michigan and a New York --All of the top candidates had the highest numbers.You saw me bring it down. I brought it down -- remember how high that number was six or seven months ago and everybody was amazed --How I brought it back down? That just comes down --
So we were told they had weapons of mass destruction --But he didn't have weapons of mass destruction. Now, the only question is did the government know he didn't? Why did they go in -- look, Iraq did not knock down and the Iraqis did not knock down the World Trade Center --OK? So we attacked Iraq but they didn't knock down the World Trade Center. We attacked them for a reason. They didn't knock down the World Trade Center --I didn't know. If you would have watched you would have probably thought they did but I didn't know. But the government should have known and they didn't have. And we attacked a country and destabilized the entire Middle East. Look --OK. Sure.Excuse me Joe, Joe --I'm a real estate person, I'm a business person --Nobody cared about my comment. In 2003 you saw comments. I was against the war.Well, I'm not saying great for the stock market doesn't mean do it. Look --I said the war is a disaster because you're going to destabilize the Middle East. I said it long before 2003 but I'm not a politician. I'm not saying it as a -- now I say things as I guess I'm a politician I hate to say --No, no. Let me tell you what it means. It means the following. Somebody had vision. I'm the only one that said don't go in and I said it 2003, I said it 2004. Now, a couple of people in your world said, "you know what, we don't have any evidence" and he said it before which I did. But I said it to people --It doesn't mean they're going to put it in the newspapers as a business person. But they said, "he really said it right after the war started that we" -- and there's plenty of proof of that. There's headlines and magazines. Don't go into the war. You're going to destabilize the Middle East.And I said Iran will take over Iraq. Iran will get the oil. I said all of these things and on top of it I didn't -- nobody knew ISIS. But on top of it I said, the worst, meanest group of people and the people who hate the most, they're going to do the best. That turns out to be ISIS. I also said and the oil --I said it all over the place. It's written all over the place, Joe -- 2003, 2004 headlines and articles. I would --Look, nobody's questioning about my being against the war. What they are saying is, "well, he was a little bit after the war." A couple of people in your world said, "that's OK because he was early on -- very early on he was against."Can you share with us three people who would consult with or want to hear from on foreign policy?I would say that I'd rather not because I'm going to be announcing a team in about a week that is really a good team. And a team that was recommended highly by me -- by -- to me. And a team that I've seen both -- and read about both in papers and seen on your show. I know the people but we're announcing a team in about a week. And I'm going to keep it a little bit secret.Go ahead.Right.Yes.I think it's disgraceful that Apple is not helping on that. I think security first and I feel -- I always felt security first. Apple should absolutely -- we should force them to do it. We should do whatever we have to do and I guess he wants to be a good liberal and he doesn't want to give the information.But we -- on that -- as an example, those two people killed 14 people. There were other people that saw the bombs laying all over the flu system like a normal apartment. You had bombs laying all over the floor. You had all sorts of ammunition. You had all sorts of everything in that apartment.
People knew that. I'd like to know who else knew it because they're almost as guilty and maybe just as guilty. I think you have to be able to correct that and I think Apple is absolutely in the wrong.OK.OK. That's true.Hi.Right.Yes, I do indeed. So I have to say we have right now an African American president and if you look at unemployment with African American youth, Monique, it's 58 percent, 59 percent. Probably even higher than that. If you take African Americans who I have friends that are having a hard time getting a job in prime age - 30, 40, 45 even 50 - their numbers are not comparable to what white men or women in business are. It's not good. You understand that.We have had an African-American president now for seven years. Going on eight years. He has done so little in terms of economics, and in terms of really getting youth thinking - there because I see all the riots, I see all the problems, you see nothing but problems. Barrack Obama has done nothing, absolutely in my opinion, nothing economically for African-Americans, especially youth but for African-Americans all over, generally.We're going to bring back our jobs. We're bringing 'em back from China. We're bringing 'em back from all over Asia. We're bringing 'em back from Mexico.
Number one, we have to get rid of rules, regulations that you have - regulations that are so bad now - I have friends, they have small business, and this is whether it's African-American or not, and you know exactly what I'm talking about - the rules and regulations, the regulations of companies today are so outrageous that they cannot compete with similar companies in China, Asia, other places. They can't compete.So the regulations are going to be gone. We're going to give incentives. We're also doing major tax cuts because small businesses are paying taxes that are far too much, and you're paying a lot of tax. Well, I guess you're making money. Are you making money? You read my book so you should be making money.Hello Barbara.All right. I talk about it all the time, Barbara. We have so many countries, South Korea - you know I order thousands of television sets a year for different projects and they're all made, all made in South Korea. Other than Sony, which is Japan, but, I mean for the most part - LG, Samsung - it's such a great question because these countries are making a fortune.And we take care of Saudi Arabia. We take care of Japan. We take care of Germany. We have - you know when you look at our budget for military it's 10 times higher - so much bigger than anybody else in the world. But what do we do? We take care of all these other countries. The question is such a great question. I talk about it, and I just can't even understand.Saudi Arabia was making a billion dollars a day, prior to the oil collapse, so now they're making half, OK, they're making plenty. And yet we take care of them. 
At a minimum, I think it's fine what we're doing but they have to pay us for it, they have to pay us so we don't lose tremendous amounts of money.Right.I would do that and I would want other countries - you know the Gulf States, if you look, the Gulf States aren't doing anything and they're big beneficiaries and they have more money than anybody else. We have $19 trillion in debt - it's going to be $21 trillion because of the horrible budget that was just passed four weeks ago, which is shocking that they just did that - so we're going to have $21 trillion in debt - we can't keep doing this.And if we're taking care of Saudi Arabia they're going to have to pay us. And if we're taking care of South Korea which makes a fortune, you know it's an economic behemoth and we have the madman right next to him and we have 28,000 soldiers on the line - we're going to have to do something.They're wrong.All I'm saying is my policies are going to reduce taxes, OK? And the taxes is going to bring jobs back and we're going to bring jobs back into the country big league, and we're going to have a dynamic economy again.Joe, we have no growth.I'm going to cut spending big league.Department of Education. We're going to cut Department of Education. We spend more money per pupil than any country in the world by far and we're ranked number 30 in the world. Oh, I thought she was a - she sneezed.But you look at - we're number 30 in the world, Department of Education, that's because I said, we're going to bringWhat we're going to do more than anything else, we're going to bring, we're going to cut - we're going to cut tremendous amounts of money - let me give you an example.Drug companies. Now, you take somebody like Woody Johnson, good guy, Johnson & Johnson. These people are in charge of - meaning Woody - are in charge of Jeb Bush's campaign finance. He's the head of campaign financing. Jeb Bush raised $148 million, total waste of money. He might as well throw it out the window. Wouldn't it have been nicer if instead of running a failed campaign he gave it to the Wounded Warriors or gave it to somebody. But the problem is, we don't negotiate - we're the largest drug producer, and - we're the largest drug buyer in the world. We don't negotiate. We don't negotiate.You pay practically the same for the country as if you go into a drug store and buy the drugs. If we negotiated the price of drugs, Joe, we'd save $300 billion a year.Now, these candidates - I self-fund, I'm going to do it. These candidates are all controlled by the drug companies, the lumber companies - they're never going to do that. They're never going to do it.There's tremendous fat. Joe, there's tremendous fat in our budgets. Tremendous fats. Beyond belief. But the candidates are all controlled by the people that make money off the fat.Right.
Right.Fraud and abuse.It's a huge number. Waste, fraud - you know people --Let me just say. Waste, fraud and abuse is massive in Social Security and Medicaid.I'm not doing it. I don't want to do it. I don't want to do it. Two reasons. Number one I don't want to do it and number two, the Democrats aren't going to do it.You know the Republicans also have to get elected, you do know that. And if you watch Bernie, and if you watch Hillary, they don't only want to not cut, they want to increase Social Security.Now. I'm not doing it for that reason. I'm just saying this. We don't have to do it. We're going to make our economy strong, we're going to make our economy rich, and we're not going to have to --Our trade agreements are a disaster. Partially because, again, contributions to the various people that run things. Like the Senators, et cetera. TPP, Trans-Pacific Partnership, is a disaster because they don't talk about monetary manipulation and devaluation. They don't talk about it.The number one way the countries are killing us is with devaluations of their currencies. And our companies can't compete. You take a look at what's happening in Japan with the devaluation of the yen. Just look at this. Caterpillar is having such a hard time competing with Komatsu, which is a big tractor maker from Japan. The - a friend of mine bought all Komatsu, all his life he's bought big Caterpillar, big contractor, big contractor.He bought, his whole life; he bought Caterpillar. Now he's buying Komatsu. Not because he wants to. He said they devalued the yen to such an extent that it's absolutely impossible to compete. So he bought it, and he's very unhappy about it.The Trans-Pacific Partnership is a disaster. And it shouldn't be signed. The NAFTA agreements and trade agreements that we have generally will be fully renegotiated by me. We have right now a deficit with Mexico, a 58 - a trade deficit, $58 billion. With Mexico. We have a $500 billion deficit with China. Can't have this. We will renegotiate.Carl Icahn came out, he endorsed me, said Trump is the one that knows what the hell's going on. We have another problem. We have corporate inversions where you have companies that are leaving our country --That's a big problem.Not actually what I said. The New York Times said I said that. But actually I was at a meeting with the New York Times. I didn't say it --I said it is a threat that I would use against China.It's going to hurt China more than it's going to hurt anybody. We have all the keys, all the power, look - China has been - it's been one of the great thefts of all time, what they've done to the United States. And I have great relationships - I sell condos for tens of millions of dollars to Chinese, I have the largest bank in the world, which is from China, as my tenant in one of my buildings in Manhattan. I bought a building, I have a building through China, the Bank of America Building in San Francisco - I mean I do a lot of business with China.We can't let China continue to get away with what they're doing to our country.No, no. It's a threat but you have to be able to put it in place. What China has done to us with devaluation of their currency is unbelievable. And nobody thought they were going to do it again, and then four months ago they had the largest devaluation they've had in 20 years. The largest in 20 years. Now they're going to do it again.Our companies can't compete. They are devaluing their currencies, a company can't compete.OK. I think it's probably the toughest agreement of any kind to make. It has been going on for many years, many friends of mine have been involved, they're very good businessmen, good negotiators. A lot of people say an agreement can't be made, which is OK, sometimes agreements can't be made, not good. But you have both sides really, but you have one side in particular growing up and learning that these are the worst people, these are the worst people et cetera et cetera.It is a very, very tough agreement to make. I was with a very prominent Israeli the other day, said it's impossible because the other side has been trained from the time they're children to hate Jewish people. But I will give it one hell of a shot. That I can tell you. But of all agreements - I would say if you can do that deal you can do any deal. That's probably the toughest deal in the world right now to make and it's possible it's not makeable because don't forget, it has to last.It's wonderful to make it and it doesn't work. But it has to last. To make lasting peace, there, probably the toughest deal of all but I'm going to give it a shot. You know I don't want to get into it. I don't want to get into it for a different reason.I don't want to get into it for a different reason, Joe, because if I do win, there has to be a certain amount of surprise, unpredictability, our country has no unpredictability. If I win, I don't want to be in a position where I'm saying to you, and the other side now say, "We don't want Trump involved, we don't want" - let me be sort of a neutral guy, let's see what - I'm going to give it a shot. It would be so great.I would be so proud if I would do that. I don't know if it's doable, I have friends of mine that are tremendous businesspeople that are really great negotiators, they say it's not doable, you understand a lot of people have gone down in flames trying to make that deal. SO I don't want to say whose fault is it, I don't think it helps.Hi Stephanie. Thank you.I'll give you an example. One of the speeches we're having a great time - I never said the word. I opened my mouth, and they go - all of your networks go, "Beep," and they thought I said this terrible word. I didn't say the word. The other one I actually, you know, you can give me a negative credit on this one. I actually repeated a word. 
He doesn't have friends.I started out I was one of 17 people, and we're not including the Democrats. It was coming at me from every which way. I was very strong and very bold and I hit a lot of people. I knocked out Lindsey Graham, I knocked out Perry, I knocked out a lot of people, Walker, we knocked out a lot of people --And I have to. Because I still have six left.Jeb Bush is a sad case, OK --I'm not saying - I'm just saying it's a very sad thing. I said he's a low-energy person. Look, a year from now, people will respect what I did. I had Lindsey Graham, who was at seven percent, after I hit him he was at nothing and he left the race. Now he's an angry person, I see him on television saying things it's like - I mean he's like an insane person.Our country doesn't win anymore. You're so worried about being nice and being politically correct. So what would you rather have me do? Be nice to everybody and now instead of all those people getting out they're still in so hammering me? 
The debate? I was being hit by the announcer, John Dickerson, everybody was really being, sort of culled, to go off --They were asking, your brother was told this or this by Donald Trump, and they have to respond. I was being hit by everybody, finger on the button. I'm the one, the only one, that said don't go into Iraq. So don't tell me about finger on the button.I want to build our military so strong, so powerful, that nobody's going to mess with it.No, it's more money, but it's cheap compared to what we're doing right now. Nobody respects us right now. They don't respect us -I'm talking about better negotiated defense budgets. Do you know that we're buying equipment that the generals and the colonels and the people in the field don't want because these companies have political contacts? So much of it has to do with the fact that I'm self-funding my campaign. I can do whatever I want.We're buying equipment that we don't even want because certain companies have better political skills. And you see it all the time. They're getting a plane they don't want. If they want the other one, they could have gotten it cheaper, but to get this one because - we're going to have a better, stronger military. And we're going to watch it so much, we will save so much money.Joe, there is so much corruption. There is so much waste and abuse in the military and elsewhere. But we're going to build our military strong. It's the cheapest thing we can do.Or any special interest, or any donors. You're describing Donald Trump.Oh, that's good.Well, I'll tell you, we're different in one primary -- I'll tell you, there's one thing that we've very similar in. He knows that our country is being ripped off big league, big league, on trade.The problem is, he can't do anything about it, he's not going to be able to do, whereas I'm going to do things.Because he doesn't understand it. I mean, he doesn't understand what's happening. But he does know that China and these other countries are ripping us off -- Mexico. You see moving down, they're moving down to Mexico. Nabisco is moving.The whole thing is crazy, what's going on with Mexico.He does understand that, much more so than many people, but he'll never be able to do anything about it.Well, that's a great question. I think I'd rather run against Hillary, just because I'd love to beat Hillary. I think I can beat Hillary so easy.I -- don't know. I mean, I'm pretty good with the legal stuff, and I don't know how she gets out of that quagmire of the emails. I --I think maybe she will, but I think if she isn't indicted, the only reason is because the Democrats are protecting her. She is being protected 100 percent.Because you look at General Petraeus, you look at all the all the other people that did a fraction of what she did --We can't, now. He has been so badly hurt.He has been so horribly -- well, look, he did a nice job. But he has been -- it was just, he had bad judgment.But she has much worse judgment than he had, and she's getting away with it. It's unfair to him.And by the way, I came out -- the want to take away further rank, they want -- and I was, for the last month and half, I was saying leave General Petraeus alone. He has suffered enough. Leave him alone. I said go get ISIS, don't get General Petraeus.Right. Right.So easy. It's so easy.Believe me. Let me tell you. Believe me.
Can I tell you? Can I tell you? You have to stop and I'll tell you.We're going to have a trade deficit of $58 billion, OK? The wall is going to cost a fraction of that, maybe 10 (billion dollars) or $12 billion, and it's going to be a real wall. It's going to be a high wall. It's going to be a beautiful -- it's going to be a wall that works.Very simple. You have five different ways. Number one -- here's the key. They are making, right -- if you look at it as a company -- $58 billion. The wall is a -- a year. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion, all I have to do it start playing with that trade deficit, and believe me, they're going to pay for the wall. You watch.I'm talking about negotiating with them, I'm not talking a trade war with -- I'm talking about Japan. We have all the cards, Joe. If we -- I was in Los Angeles, I see these massive ships coming in with cars. We have all the cards, we don't play them. We don't have the politicians that know how to play them.We're negotiating against great negotiators. China, Mexico, Japan, believe me, we're going to start doing great with those -- that trade. And that's the thing. Bernie Sanders can't do it.The bottom line, I think he would be easier to beat than Hillary --because I always wanted to run against a socialist in this country. I can't imagine it. I think he'd be easier to beat.The problem with Bernie -- thank you. That's a very good question. The problem with Bernie's plan is everyone's going to pay 95 percent taxes. I mean, you know, you have that and you have all the other things that he wants to do, and you're going to have --
you're going to have a tax rate of 95 percent.You're right.You know why?Because the students are a conduit to get all this money to the colleges. The colleges have gone crazy. You look at the fees they're paying, you look at the kind of numbers that the administrators make. Colleges have gone up practically more than anyone because the students, they're the real losers in this thing. They go borrow the money from the government and the colleges charge more and more and more, disproportionately more. They have to bring down their costs.We have to help the students, Joe, because what the colleges have done, their costs have gone up more than anything because the government basically gives them the money to do that through the students, but the students have to pay back the money. It's not fair to the students.Good question. Thank you.Well, I think I will set myself apart because my policies are better, I'm a much better businessperson than they are. They've never employed anybody, ever. I think I'm a better leader, I'm going to bring the country together far better than they're going to do, far better than they're going to do.
You look at a guy like Ted Cruz, he's a nasty guy. He can't even -- he doesn't have one Republican endorsement from the Senate and he works with the Senate. Think of it. Hard to believe. Not one senator has endorsed him, and he's a senator.And it's fine to stand on the floor of the Senate for a day or two days and have everybody else in the Senate laughing at you and you do nothing. I mean, he accomplished nothing with that. He went out and he, you know, talked and talked for two days, he filibustered for two days, he got nothing out of it.I will bring the country together. I will take care of our country. I'm going to make our country rich again and then I'm going to make our country great again. But we have to become solvent, we have to become rich again before we become great.We owe $19 trillion, we've got to start paying it down. We've got to start balancing budgets. But there's so much fat in this country, and I understand it, they don't. No politician will ever understand it.No, no. I'm attacking because he attacked me.Joe, Joe, Ted Cruz does not have the temperament, I'll be honest.Ted Cruz does not have the temperament.I think I'll be able to do that.It's what I do.Yeah, that's what I do. I do deals. I mean, you have to do deal. We don't want to do the executive orders all the time. It wasn't supposed to be about executive orders. You have to bring them, like Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan, you have to bring them together.When I speak in front of a group of people and it's thousands and thousands of people, by the time I end up finishing that, everybody likes Donald Trump. You said -- you saw that where my favorability, when I speak to people, goes up to the 70s, 80s and 90s after an hour speech. I bring people together, and it'll be a much different country and a much better country than it is right now.We're a divided nation right now, Joe.And we're like the sad -- we are like a nation that's being taken advantage by every -- by everybody.We're going to be brought together.I really liked the temperament and the attitude of Ronald Reagan. I really thought that he had something very special.I was -- I was critical on him with trade. I've been critical of every president because of trade, because we have been -- since I've been old enough to really understand what's going on, we have been just decimated by trade deals.I liked his attitude, I liked his style, I liked the way he brought the country, to a certain extent, together, including -- I liked the fact that he was able to get along with Tip O'Neill and they were able to make deals together, even though they were very different people. And they actually liked each other very much.You know, today, you have -- you know, those days, you used to have the Republicans, Democrats, they go have dinner together, they have their families together. Today, the hatred in Washington is unbelievable.I think Obama.I think it's been -- he's been such a negative source. He has been so negative. Even -- and I said it before -- even with the African-Americans, the African-Americans are not partaking in anything having to do with the upside of this country. And I think I will do phenomenally with the African-American voter, and you've seen that in the polls. I mean, I'm getting numbers that nobody's ever seen before from the African-American voter.Hi.Very simple.Very simple -- it's a -- I have such a wonderful answer. My theme is Make America Great Again. I want to make America great again.I want to make it strong because I love the country. I didn't need this, Joe. Believe me, I have a wonderful life, I have a wonderful company, I have a wonderful family --This is a lot of work. I want to make America great again, and we can do that. Militarily, we're going to do it, with trade we're going to do it, with health care we're going to do it, we're going to do it at the borders; our borders are like Swiss Cheese.People pour across the borders like we don't have any borders.Well, look. It's been certainly interesting. It's not easy It's a lot of work. I mean, I'm here. I could be someplace else, to be honest with you. Okay, I'm being drilled by the two of you; I could be someplace else.But so far I think it's really been worth it. It's been one of the most interesting experiences -- probably the most interesting experience of my life. I've enjoyed it. I think I've done well. And we'll see what happens.Thank you.
