Chris, why don't you mention my name so I can get into this.
I appreciate that, I really do, thank you.
Well, first of all he said the exact same thing about me, that I would make a great Vice Presidential nominee when Mitt Romney was considering. I said the same thing about Marco. I think we were both right at the time, and Mitt picked somebody else. So, let's move on to the 2016 race. Who has the leadership skills to lead? And, I'm proud of the fact that I have 12 Medal of Honor recipients, over 30 admirals and generals that believe that I would be a steady hand as Commander in Chief. That I serve as Governor of the state of Florida where we cut taxes and reduced government. I took on very powerful interests, forged consensus, fought for my beliefs, implemented them and the state was better off.We had eight hurricanes and four tropical storms in 16 months. The whole state was turned upside down. It required a steady hand. Leadership. You learn this, you learn it by doing it. It's not something that you just go up, and on the job do it.It's not the same. Look, let's be clear. Marco Rubio is a gifted, gifted politician, and he may have the skills to be a President of the United States, but we've tried it the old way with Barack Obama, with soaring eloquence and we got -- we didn't get a leader we got someone who wants to divide the country up. The next President going to have to forge consensus to bring about a set of common purposes so that we can move forward again in this country...This relates to the strategic patience of the Obama administration. They come up with these great marketing terms, and what they do is they pull back, and voids are filled, and they're now filled by asymmetric threats of terror, as well as nation-states on the run.The next president of the United States is gonna have to get the United States back in the game, and if a preemptive strike is necessary to keep us safe, then we should do it.
Well, first of all, it's interesting that that happened literally days when this hostage release took place in Iran. A day or two days afterwards, North Korea took a -- held an American student hostage. I think it's when we send a signal of weakness, when we are negotiating to release people that committed crimes in our country for people that didn't commit crimes that are held hostage in Iran.We saw the shameful treatment of our sailors, that this creates weakness -- sends a signal of weakness around the world. The next president of the United States is going to have to get back in the game. Where the United States' word matters. Where we back up our allies, where we don't send signals of weakness. We need to use every -- every influence possible to get this student back.And I think John is right about this, there are crippling sanctions that are available, as it relates to the two or three banks that North Korea uses to -- to -- use it -- illicit trade. We ought to re-establish sanctions, not just because of the student, but because of their actions that they're taking right now, as it relates to building this missile capability.
Good evening.
The difference -- the difference between eminent domain for public purpose -- as Donald said, roads and infrastructure, pipelines and all that -- that's for public purpose. But what Donald Trump did was use eminent domain to try to take the property of an elderly woman on the strip in Atlantic City. That is not public purpose, that is down right wrong.And you lost in the court.
That is not true. And the simple fact is to turn this into a limousine parking lot for his casinos is a not public use.And in Florida, based on what we did, we made that impossible. It is part of our Constitution. That's the better approach. That is the conservative approach.How tough it is to take away property from an elderly woman?How tough it is to take away property from an elderly woman?I consider it a public use.
It's a public use. It's a public use.
It's a public use. 
Yeah.
It's a public use. 
Established by the courts -- federal, state courts.
I would like to see more millionaires. I think we need to grow more millionaires, we need create a prosperity society where people can rise up.
This notion that somehow we're undertaxed as a nation is just fool hearty, when we have entitlements growing far faster than our ability to pay for it. A conservative, because that's the point of this, believes in limited government, believes in a entrepreneurial capitalism and a strong national defense.But it also has to be, we need to reform things. In my town hall meetings, I went to a place where a woman described her neighbor, who has a better economic deal by not working than her struggling to make ends meet. We need to be on the side of working people. And you know, the problem with the left is, another tax, another regulation, another mandate makes it harder for them to rise up.Everything that we should do should be focused on high, sustained economic growth, where the middle class gets a raise for the first time, and where people are rewarded for work, rather than non-work. And I know how to do this. And if people are interested in the specifics of this, they ought to go to jeb2016.com.I would. And I would do it in concert, again, with our Arab allies and with Europe, most particularly in this case. This is the lesson learned: in history, if you bomb something and not do anything as it relates to deal with the aftermath of this, if you don't have a stable government, you get what we have in Libya.And this is not -- leading from behind is not an effective policy. We have to lead. Without the United States, nothing seems to work. Europe doesn't have the ability to -- to -- to lead -- forward lean (ph) in this regard.And so dealing with the caliphate is important, because it now has spawned other areas. There have been 70-plus attacks in 17 countries, either inspired by ISIS or organized by ISIS, Libya being the most important one now.We have to deal with the caliphate, with building a Sunni army there, but we also have to deal with it in Libya. And I think the United States, ultimately, is going to play -- play a significant role in this.The problem with the Obama administration is that they see this incrementally. They're reluctant. They don't lead. No one knows whether we're serious, and when we do it, we do it in increments you can barely see.The United States has to lead in a much more aggressive way than we're doing right now.
No, no, I wouldn't. No, I wouldn't. And it was used sparingly, Congress has changed the laws and I -- and I think where we stand is the appropriate place. But what we need to do is to make sure that we expand our intelligence capabilities.The idea that we're going to solve this fight with predator drones, killing people somehow is a -- is more acceptable than capturing them, securing the information. This is why closing Guantanamo is a complete disaster. What we need to do is make sure that we are kept safe by having intelligence capabilities, both human and technological intelligence capabilities far superior than what we have today. That's how you get a more safe place is by making sure that we're fully engaged. And right now, this administration doesn't do that.
This is a -- this is an important subject. I agree with everything that's been said here about repealing unconstitutional rules and rules that are creating real burdens for investing that creating jobs.But we also ought to get back to being a Tenth Amendment country, as well, a country that respects the states to be able to make more decisions. And in the Bush administration, we would shift transportation dollars back to the states. I trust Kasich and Christie to build the roads and the infrastructure of their states than Washington, D.C.EPA delegated authority, back to the states. Education dollars, back to the states. I would like to see reform take place all across the country, where there's more vouchers, more freedom.If we did that, we would shrink government's power in Washington, D.C. and we would have a much more effective government, where people would begin to trust our government again, because now, no one believes it works.You mentioned me. He mentioned me. One other thing that I think we ought to do, along with repealing Obamacare, we need to shift all of this power of healthcare, which is the most egregious form of federal power that is suppressing wages and incomes, and allow governors to have the Medicaid plans so that they can create 21st century Medicaid insurance for people that are stuck in poverty. There's so much that can be done, but I don't trust Washington to do it. I trust the state capitals to be the place -- to be the source of innovation and reform in this country.
I didn't mention him the second time.
I do, and I do think that we should not impose any kind of political agenda on the military. There should be -- if women can meet the requirements, the minimum requirements for combat service they ought to have the right to do it. For sure. It ought to be focused on the morale as well. We got to make sure that we have readiness much higher than we do today. We need to eliminate the sequester which is devastating our military.We can't be focusing on the political side of this, we need to realize that our military force is how we project our word in the world. When we're weak militarily it doesn't matter what we say. We can talk about red lines, and ISIS being the J.V. team, and reset buttons and all this. If we don't have a strong military than no one fears us, and they take actions that are against our national interest.I'm not suggesting we have a draft. What I'm suggesting is that we ought to have readiness being the first priority of our military, and secondly, that we make sure that the morale is high. And right now, neither one of those are acceptable because we've been gutting the military budget.We also need to reform our procurement process. We need to make sure there are more men and women in uniform than people -- than civilians in our Defense Department. There's a lot of things that we need to reform to bring our defense capabilities into the 21st century and I'm the guy that could do that. That's why I have the support of generals, of admirals, of 12 Medal of Honor recipients and many other people that know that I would be a steady commander-in-chief and rebuild our military.
I totally agree that we need to give veterans more choices. A veterans card to be able to go to a private provider will enhance the quality of the service inside the Department of Veterans Affairs. We need career civil service reform. Only three people were fired after waiting lists were dropped where veterans didn't get care and people died. It is outrageous. And Hillary Clinton says that that's acceptable? Because she is captive of the public service uniforms.Career civil service reform would allow the next president to fire people that are -- that are showing sheer incompetence. At a town hall meeting today, someone came -- told a story of their father who looked like he was 85. He had -- he got a bill eight years later from an operation he had, eight years it took. They couldn't resolve the dispute and then he was told that he died. Literally, the Veterans Administration sent a death certificate to this guy and it took nine months to clarify the guy -- I met him. He's voting for me. And he is -- likely to be alive.
This is -- this is outrageous. It is completely outrageous. So, giving veterans more choices, creating centers of excellence, focusing on the true problems that exist. Dr. Carson is completely right. We need to start focusing on this earlier, before they become veterans so that there's a customized plan so people don't fall through the cracks. We can do this, but it's going to require someone who has proven leadership skills to make it happen.Look, I'm pro-life. In fact, on this stage, I'm the most pro-life person because I've acted on it for eight years as governor of the state of Florida.
Where we abolished partial-birth abortion, where parents have the right to be notified when their teenage child is having an abortion. We were the first state to do a choose life license plate to raise money for adoption. We were the first state to have state monies go to crisis pregnancy centers, which recently was just increased to $4 million a year.
We created greater regulation on abortion clinics, where there were horrific procedures. So I'm pro life, but I believe there should be exceptions: rape, incest and when the life of the mother is in danger. And so, that belief, and my consistency on this, makes me, I think, poised to be in the right place, the sweet spot for a Republican nominee. And others may have a different view and I respect it.
But I think we have to be cognizant of the fact there's a lot of people that are concerned about having a pro-life position without any exceptions.
Peyton Manning is supporting me. And I'm for Denver.
I want to thank the people of New Hampshire, and I want to celebrate the birthday of a great president, Ronald Reagan would have been 105 today.
President Reagan believed in the future of our country, believed in its greatness, had a hopeful, optimistic message. Drew people towards our cause. We need someone who has a proven record to take our case to the American people because our philosophy is by far the best one. Limited government, entrepreneurial capitalism, of peace through strength. I believe I have the skills to take our party to victory in November.I ask for your support on Tuesday to keep America, and make America a safer, stronger, and freer. Thank you all very much.ret, we're just starting. The first vote hasn't been counted. Why don't we let the process work. I trust Iowans, Granite staters, people in South Carolina, people in Nevada, to start this process out. I kind of miss Donald Trump. He was a little teddy bear to me.We always had such a loving relationship in these debates and in between and the tweets. I kind of miss him. I wish he was here. Everybody else was in the witness protection program when I went after him on behalf of what the Republican cause should be: conservative principles, believing in limited government, believing in accountability. Leading by fixing the things that are broken.Look, I am in the establishment because my dad, the greatest man alive was president of the United States and my brother, who I adore as well as fantastic brother was president. Fine, I'll take it. I guess I'm part of the establishment Barbara Bush is my mom. I'll take that, too. But this election is not about our pedigree, this is an election about people that are really hurting. We need a leader that will fix things and have a proven record to do it. And we need someone who will take on Hillary Clinton in November. Someone who has a proven record, who has been tested, who is totally transparent. I released 34 years of tax returns and 300,000 e-mails in my government record. To get the information from Hillary Clinton, you need to get a subpoena from the FBI.
No, you weren't. Your name wasn't mentioned, Ted.
Well, first, I was critical of the Senators not giving the authorization for the use of military force. They should have made it more open ended for the next president. We shouldn't have the war fighters have their arms tied behind their back as President Obama wanted to do, but they had a chance to show support and it wasn't popular at the time. It became popular after the attack in Paris, and San Bernardino. Now we hear the tough talk.Prior to that, in the Reagan Library, I gave a detailed plan. Exactly what to do as it relates to ISIS. And it is from the lessons from history that we do this because if we allow this to fester, we're going to have Islamic terrorism, multi- generations of it all across this country. The caliphate of ISIS has to be destroyed, which means we need to arm directly to Kurds, imbed our troops with the Iraqi military, re engage with the Sunni tribal leaders. Get the lawyers off the damn backs of the military once and for all.
Have a no fly zone in Syria and create safe zones to deal with the refugees. But, more importantly, to train a Sunni-led force in Syria to take out ISIS with our support ground and air. That's what we need to to, and I laid that out prior to the crisis with the advice of a lot of people, including 12 Medal of Honor recipients that I'm proud that they're supporting my campaign.Of course. And there's all sorts of ways that can be done at the state, local and federal level to do that. But the first duty of the next president of the United States is to fix the mess at the Department of Veterans Affairs. That's his first responsibility.
Look, we have waiting lists for veterans that are -- that are leaving because of the sequester where we're gutting the military. More and more military personnel are leaving becoming veterans, and the waiting list grows. They've given out $140 million of bonuses to Veterans Department employees, including reducing the waiting lists, without giving veterans care. People died, and only three people have been fired.I will make sure that we fire the sheer incompetence inside the Department of Veterans Affairs and then we'll give veterans a choice card so that they don't have to travel hours and hours to get care if they want to go to their private provider. You want to make the Veterans Administration do a better job, give them -- give veterans choices and you'll get a much better result. And as it relates to all the other organizations, let me give you a good example.In Houston, Texas, there's an organization in place because someone acted on their heart, wanted to make sure that there's no homeless veterans in Houston. And they've come pretty close to that without federal government assistance. We need to mobilize the entire country to treat our veterans and treat them with much more respect than they get today.No, they shouldn't. And I believe that Puerto Rico ought to have the right of self-determination. If I was a Puerto Rican, I'd vote for statehood so that they have full citizenship. They serve in the military. They would have to pay federal taxes. They would -- they would accept the responsibilities of full U.S. citizenship. But they should have the right of determine -- self-determination.Before you get to that, though, Puerto Rico is going to have to deal with the structural problems they face. You know, it's -- it's a fact that if you can pay for a $79 one-way ticket to Orlando, and you can escape the challenges of a declining economy and high crime rates, you move to Orlando.And a lot of people are doing that. And the spiraling out-of- control requires Puerto Rico to make structural reforms. The federal government can play a role in allowing them to do that, but they should not -- the process of statehood or the status of Puerto Rico won't be solved until we get to the bigger issue of how you deal with the structural economic problems they're facing right now.Well, I'm kind of confused because he was the sponsor of the Gang of Eight bill that did require a bunch of thresholds but ultimately allowed for citizenship over an extended period of time. I mean, that's a fact. And he asked me to support that. And I -- I supported him because I think people, when you're elected, you need to do things.And he led the charge to finally fix this immigration problem that has existed now for, as Marco says, for 30 years. And then he cut and run because it wasn't popular amongst conservatives, I guess.Here's what I believe. And I wrote a book about this called Immigration Wars. You can get it at $2.99 on Amazon. It's not a bestseller. I can promise you.
There won't be any -- you can get it. It's affordable for everybody. We should have a path to legal status for the 12 million people that are here illegally. It means, come out from the shadows, pay a fine, earn legal status by working, by paying taxes, learning English. Not committing crimes and earn legal status where you're not cutting in front of the line for people that are patiently waiting outside.
I think that is the -- I think that's the conservative consensus pragmatic approach to how to solve this problem.
So did you.Yeah. So did you, Marco.
Marco, Marco -- he brought up my name. I have supported a consensus approach to solving this problem wherever it came up. and in 2007 it almost passed when my brother was president of the United States. A bipartisan approach got close. Barack Obama actually had the poison pill to stop it then.And when you led the charge with the Gang of Eight, I supported it because you asked me to. I think it's important for people in elected office to try to forge consensus to solve problems. There's never going do be perfect bill.But when you didn't do that and you ask people to support, you shouldn't cut and run.
You should stick with it and that's exactly what happened. He cut and run. And that's a tragedy because now it's harder and harder to actually solve this problem.
That beautiful young woman who's an entrepreneur who served in the military, first of all, is deserving of our respect for service in the military and the fact that she's an entrepreneur.And we should be a welcoming nation. Our identity is not based on race or ethnicity, it's based on a set of shared values. That's American citizenship. And Dulce Candy -- a pretty cool name, actually -- that is now an entrepreneur over Youtube is part of that American spirit, and we should celebrate it as conservatives. That's what we believe in.
You can -- you can deal with the threat of terror and also recognize that this country should be aspirational across the board.Well, first of all, I've seen polls where I'm beating Hillary Clinton pretty regularly.And I believe I can, because I have a proven record, a record of accomplishment, a record of cutting taxes, of shrinking the government, of reforming education, of challenging the status quo, eliminating career civil service protections, shrinking the government workforce by 11 percent, but leading the nation in job growth. That's the record of accomplishment that should be taken to Hillary Clinton, who has no record of accomplishment. So I'm confident if I win this nomination, I will aggressively go against her and beat her.As it relates to the super PACs, I have no control over that. And this is beanbag compared to what the Clinton hit machine is going to do to the Republican nominee. The simple fact is, we all have a record. It all will be scrutinized. There's give and take. It's called the politics. And that's the way it is.I'm running hard and I believe I'll be the Republican nominee and I'll be the one best suited to beat Hillary Clinton, who should not be president of the United States.Well first of all, I think it's important that when we're running for the highest office in the land that we recognize that we're living in dangerous times and we have to be serious about it, that our words have consequences.Donald Trump, for example -- I'm glad -- I mentioned his name again just if anybody was missing him  Mr. Trump believed that in reaction to people's fears that we should ban all Muslims. Well, that creates an environment that's toxic in our own country. Nobela (ph) is a rising entrepreneur. She wants to pursue the American dream. She's an American citizen. She should not feel uncomfortable about her citizenship. She's not the threat. The threat is Islamic terrorism.We need to focus our energies there, not these broad, blanket, kind of statements that will make it harder for us to deal with ISIS. We need to deal with ISIS in the caliphate. We need a strategy to destroy ISIS there. You can't do that without the cooperation of the Muslim world because they're as threatened as we are.So, I think it's important for us to be careful about the language we use, which is why I've been critical of Donald Trump. Disparaging women, disparaging hispanics, that's not a sign of strength. Making fun of disabled people we're never going to win elections if we don't have a more broader unifying message.
We desperately need a conservative leader as president of the United States. I have a proven record as governor of the state of Florida, as a conservative leader. And I also have detailed plans to fix the mess in Washington, D.C.As president I will restore and rebuild our military, restore the alliances and keep us safe. And as our party's nominee, I will defeat Hillary Clinton in November. I ask for your support on the caucuses come Monday night and I will make you proud as our party's nominee. Thank you very much.Well first of all, the idea that somehow we're better off today than the day that Barack Obama was inaugurated president of the United States is totally an alternative universe. The simple fact is that the world has been torn asunder.Think about it. With grandiose language, the president talks about red lines and nothing to follow it up; talks about ISIS being the JV team, they form a caliphate the size of Indiana with 35 (thousand) to 40,000 battle-tested terrorists. He's missing the whole point, that America's leadership in the world is required for peace and stability.In the crowd today is Major General James Livingston, who's the co-chairman of my campaign here in South Carolina, a Medal of Honor recipient.I've learned from him that what we need to achieve is peace through strength, which means we need to rebuild the military. In this administration, every weapon system has been gutted, in this administration, the force levels are going down to a level where we can't even project force. Our friends no longer think we have their back and our enemies no longer fear us, and we're in a much difficult -- we're in a much different position than we should be.And for the life of me, I have no understanding why the president thinks that everything is going well. Terrorism is on the run, China, Russia is advancing their agenda at warp speed, and we pull back.As president of the United States, I will be a commander in chief that will have the back of the military. We will rebuild the military to make sure that it is a solid force, not to be the world's policeman, but to make sure that in a peaceful world, people know that the United States is there to take care of our own national interests and take care of our allies.No. And worse -- worse yet, to be honest with you, Hillary Clinton would be a national security disaster.Think about it. She wants to continue down the path of Iran, Benghazi, the Russian reset, Dodd-Frank, all the things that have -- that have gone wrong in this country, she would be a national security mess. And that is wrong.And you know what? Here's the problem. If she gets elected, she's under investigation with the FBI right now. If she gets elected, her first 100 days, instead of setting an agenda, she might be going back and forth between the White House and the courthouse. We need to stop that.
Neil, my name was mentioned here. Neil, my name was mentioned as well.Here's the deal, Chris is totally right. He's been a good governor, and he's a heck of a lot better than his predecessor that would have bankrupted New Jersey.Everybody on this stage is better than Hillary Clinton. And I think the focus ought to be on making sure that we leave this nomination process, as wild and woolly as it's going to be -- this is not being bad.These attack ads are going to be part of life. Everybody just needs to get used to it. Everybody's record's going to be scrutinized, and at the end of the day we need to unite behind the winner so we can defeat Hillary Clinton, because she is a disaster.Our country rise up again, but we need to have a compelling conservative agenda that we present to the American people in a way that doesn't disparage people, that unites us around our common purpose.And so everybody needs to discount some of the things you're going to hear in these ads, and discount the -- the back-and-forth here, because every person here is better than Hillary Clinton.
First of all, I'd like to recognize Governor Haley for her incredible leadership in the aftermath of the manuel AME church killings. And I also want to recognize the people in that church that showed the grace of God and the grace of forgiveness and the mercy that they showed.I don't know if any of us could have done what they did, one after another, within 48 hours of that tragedy taking place. Look, here's the deal, in this particular case, the FBI made a mistake. The law itself requires a background check, but that didn't fulfill their part of the bargain within the time that they were supposed to do.We don't need to add new rules, we need to make sure the FBI does its job. Because that person should not have gotten a gun, should not -- would not have passed a background check. The first impulse of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton is to take rights away from law- abiding citizens.That's what they do, whether it's the San Bernardino attack or if it's these tragedies that take place, I think we need to focus on what the bigger issue is. It isn't law-abiding gun owners.Look, I have an A plus rating in the NRA and we also have a reduction in gun violence because in Florida, if you commit a crime with a gun, you're going away. You're going away for a long, long while.And that's what we should focus on is the violence in our communities. Target the efforts for people that are committing crimes with guns, and if you do that, and get it right, you're going to be much better off than creating a political argument where there's a big divide.The other issue is mental health. That's a serious issue that we could work on. Republicans and Democrats alike believe this.The president's first impulse is do this by executive order, power he doesn't have. Why not go to Congress and in a bipartisan way, begin to deal with the process of mental health issues so that people that are spiraling out of control because of mental health challenges don't have access to guns.Well, first of all, under President Jeb Bush, we would restore the strength of the military. Last week, Secretary Carter announced that the Navy's going to be cut again. It's now half the size of what it was prior to Operation Desert Storm.The deployments are too high for the military personnel. We don't have procurement being done for refreshing the equipment. The B-52 is still operational as the long range bomber; it was inaugurated in the age of Harry Truman. The planes are older than the pilots. We're gutting our military, and so the Iranians and the Chinese and the Russians and many other countries look at the United States not as serious as we once were.We have to eliminate the sequester, rebuild our military in a way that makes it clear that we're back in the game.Secondly, as it relates to Iran, we need to confront their ambitions across the board. We should reimpose sanctions, they've already violated sanctions after this agreement was signed by testing medium-range missiles.Thirdly, we need to move our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem to send a serious signal that we're back in the game with Israel and sign an agreement that makes sure that the world knows that they will have technological superiority. We need to get back in the game as it relates to our Arab nations. The rest of the world is moving away from us
towards other alliances because we are weak. This president and John Kerry and Hillary Clinton all have made it harder for the next president to act, but he must act to confront the ambitions of Iran. We can get back in the game to restore order and security for our own country.Donald, Donald -- can I -- I hope you reconsider this, because this policy is a policy that makes it impossible to build the coalition necessary to take out ISIS. The Kurds are our strongest allies. They're Muslim. You're not going to even allow them to come to our country?The other Arab countries have a role to play in this. We cannot be the world's policeman. We can't do this unilaterally. We have to do this in unison with the Arab world. And sending that signal makes it impossible for us to be serious about taking out ISIS and restoring democracy in Syria.So I hope you'll reconsider. I hope you'll reconsider. The better way of dealing with this -- the better way of dealing with this is recognizing that there are people in, you know, the -- Islamic terrorists inside, embedded in refugee populations.What we ought to do is tighten up our efforts to deal with the entry visa program so that a citizen from Europe, it's harder if they've been traveling to Syria or traveling to these other places where there is Islamic terrorism, make it harder -- make the screening take place.We don't have to have refugees come to our country, but all Muslims, seriously? What kind of signal does that send to the rest of the world that the United States is a serious player in creating peace and security?
Yeah, they are unhinged.
No, not at all, absolutely not. I can see why people are angry and scared, because this president has created a condition where our national security has weakened dramatically. I totally get that. But we're running for the presidency of the United States here. This isn't -- this isn't, you know, a different kind of job. You have to lead. You cannot make rash statements and expect the rest of the world to respond as though, well, it's just politics.Every time we send signals like this, we send a signal of weakness, not strength. And so it was (inaudible) his statement, which is why I'm asking him to consider changing his views.
 So, are we going to ban Muslims from India, from Indonesia, from countries that are strong allies -- that we need to build better relationships with? Of course not. What we need to do is destroy ISIS.I laid out a plan at the Citadel to do just that and it starts with creating a "No Fly Zone" and "Safe Zones" to make sure refugees are there. We need to lead a force, a Sunni led force inside of Syria. We need to embed with -- with the Iraqi military. We need to arm the Kurds the directly. We need to re-establish the relationships with the Sunnis.We need the lawyers(ph) off the back of the war fighters. That's how you solve the problem. You don't solve it by big talk where you're banning all Muslims and making it harder for us to build the kind of coalition for us to be successful.
Absolutely.
Yeah.Here's -- apart from the -- apart from the higher prices on consumers and people are living paycheck to paycheck, apart from that, there will be retaliation.
So they soybean sales from Iowa, entire soybean production goes -- the equivalent of it goes to China. Or how about Boeing right here within a mile? Do you think that the Chinese, if they had a 45 percent tariff imposed on all their imports wouldn't retaliate and start buying Airbus? Of course, they would. This would be devastating for the economy. We need someone with a steady hand being president of the United States.
They're a mile away from here.
My name was mentioned. My name was mentioned here. The simple fact is that the plane that's being build here is being sold to China. You can -- if you -- you flew in with your 767, didn't you? Right there, right next to the plant.Check it out.
I would try to convince him otherwise, but this last back and forth between two senators -- back bench senators, you know, explains why we have the mess in Washington, D.C. We need a president that will fix our immigration laws and stick with it, not bend with the wind.The simple fact is one of the ways, Maria, to solve the problem you described is narrow the number of people coming by family petitioning to what every other country has so that we have the best and the brightest that come to our country. We need to control the border, we need to do all of this in a comprehensive way, not just going back and forth and talking about stuff.
Oh, I'll talk about that, too. But you haven't asked me a question in a while, Neil, so I thought I'd get that off my chest if you don't mind.
I got that. And the problem today is there's no confidence in Washington, D.C. There needs to be more than one meeting, there needs to complete dialogue with the large technology companies. They understand that there's a national security risk. We ought to give them a little bit of a liability release so that they share data amongst themselves and share data with the federal government, they're not fearful of a lawsuit.We need to make sure that we keep the country safe. This is the first priority. The cybersecurity challenges that we face, this administration failed us completely, completely. Not just the hacking of OPM, but that is -- that is just shameful. 23 million files in the hands of the Chinese? So it's not just the government -- the private sector companies, it's also our own government that needs to raise the level of our game.We should put the NSA in charge of the civilian side of this as well. That expertise needs to spread all across the government and there needs to be much more cooperation with our private sector.
You've got to keep asking. You've got to keep asking because this is a hugely important issue. If you can encrypt messages, ISIS can, over these platforms, and we have no ability to have a cooperative relationship --
Well, if the law would change, yeah. But I think there has to be recognition that if we -- if we are too punitive, then you'll go to other -- other technology companies outside the United States. And what we want to do is to control this.We also want to dominate this from a commercial side. So there's a lot of balanced interests. But the president leads in this regard. That's what we need. We need leadership, someone who has a backbone and sticks with things, rather than just talks about them as though anything matters when you're talking about amendments that don't even actually are part of a bill that ever passed.Who can you count on to keep us safer, stronger and freer? Results count, and as governor, I pushed Florida up to the top in terms of jobs, income and small business growth.Detailed plans count, and I believe that the plan I've laid out to destroy ISIS before the tragedies of San Bernardino and Paris are the right ones.Credibility counts. There'll be people here that will talk about what they're going to do. I've done it. I ask for your support to build, together, a safer and stronger America.Our freedom is under attack. Our economy is under water. The leading democrat is under investigation. And America is under the gun to lead the free world to protect our civilized way of life.
Serious times require strong leadership, that's what at stake right now. Regarding national security, we need to restore the defense cuts of Barack Obama to rebuild our military, to destroy ISIS before it destroys us. Regarding economic security, we need to take power and money away from Washington D.C. and empower American families so that they can rise up again.Look, America still is an exceptional country. We love to lead and we love to win. And we do it, when we take on any challenge and when we take - we support our friends.As president, I will keep you and our country safe, secure, and free. Thank you.
Well, first of all, we need to destroy ISIS in the caliphate. That's -- that should be our objective. The refugee issue will be solved if we destroy ISIS there, which means we need to have a no-fly zone, safe zones there for refugees and to build a military force.We need to embed our forces -- our troops inside the Iraqi military. We need to arm directly the Kurds. And all of that has to be done in concert with the Arab nations. And if we're going to ban all Muslims, how are we going to get them to be part of a coalition to destroy ISIS?The Kurds are the greatest fighting force and our strongest allies. They're Muslim. Look, this is not a serious proposal. In fact, it will push the Muslim world, the Arab world away from us at a time when we need to reengage with them to be able to create a strategy to destroy ISIS.So Donald, you know, is great at -- at the one-liners, but he's a chaos candidate. And he'd be a chaos president. He would not be the commander in chief we need to keep our country safe.
Look, he mentioned me. I can bring -- I can talk. This is -- this is the problem. Banning all Muslims will make it harder for us to do exactly what we need to do, which is to destroy ISIS. We need a strategy. We need to get the lawyers off the back of the warfighters. Right now under President Obama, we've created this -- this standard that is so high that it's impossible to be successful in fighting ISIS.We need to engage with the Arab world to make this happen. It is not a serious proposal to say that -- to the people that you're asking for their support that they can't even come to the country to even engage in a dialogue with us. That's not a serious proposal. We need a serious leader to deal with this. And I believe I'm that guy.They are reverent if we want to destroy ISIS. If we want to destroy radical Islamic terrors, we can't disassociate ourselves from peace loving Muslims. If we expect to do this on our own, we will fail but if we do it in unison with people who are also are at risk and threatened by Islamic Radical terrorism, we'll be far more successful.Look, the FBI has the tools necessary un-American activities in our country. It goes on, we shouldn't even be talking about it, to be honest with you out in the public. Of course they have those capabilities and we should make sure that we give the FBI, the NSA, our intelligence communities, all the resources they need to keep us safe.But the main thing we should be focused on is the strategy to destroy ISIS. And I laid out a plan that the Reagan Library before the tragedy of Paris, and before San Bernardino to do just that. It requires leadership, it's not filing an amendment and call it a success.It is developing a strategy, leading the world, funding it to make sure that we have a military that's second to none, and doing the job and making sure that we destroy ISIS there. That's how you keep America safe.
This is another example of the lack of seriousness. Look, this is -- this is troubling because we're at war. They've declared war on us and we need to have a serious strategy to destroy ISIS.But the idea that that is a solution to this is just -- is just crazy. It makes no sense to suggest this. Look, two months ago Donald Trump said that ISIS was not our fight. Just two months ago he said that Hillary Clinton would be a great negotiator with Iran. And he gets his foreign policy experience from the shows.That is not a serious kind of candidate. We need someone that thinks this through. That can lead our country to safety and security.
You said on September 30th that ISIS was not a factor.
I'm talking right now. I'm talking.
A little of your own medicine there, Donald.
Donald, you're not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency. That's not going to happen.
And I do have the strength. Leadership, leadership is not about attacking people and disparaging people. Leadership is about creating a serious strategy to deal with the threat of our time.
And I laid out that strategy before the attacks in Paris and before the attacks in San Bernardino. And it is the way forward. We need to increase our military spending. We need to deal with a no- fly zone in Syria, a safe zone. We need to focus on building a military that is second-to-none so that we can destroy Islamic terrorism.
 I do. I think the lesson's learned are that we have to have to have a strategy to get and a strategy to get out. Which means, that you create a stable situation.
This president and this is what the focus ought to be, it's not the differences between us, it's Barack Obama does not believe America's leadership in the world is a force for good. He does not believe that our strength is a place where security can take place. He leads from behind. He creates an environment that now we're creating the most unstable situation we've had since the World War II era.The focus ought to be on the single fact that Hillary Clinton wants to double down on a failed foreign policy and we need to be united to defeat that because we're going to be in a place that is far less secure than it is today. Don't you all agree?
Because I -- first of all, I know what I don't know. I know what I don't know. I would seek out, as I have, the best advice that exists. I won't get my information from the shows. I don't know if that's Saturday morning or Sunday morning. I don't know which one.
I will seek out the best advice, and I will create a strategy and I will persuade the American people what the role of America should be. I've laid out a policy of rebuilding our military.All of the talk that we're seeing here -- most of which I agree on, frankly -- requires a much stronger military. We now have a lack of readiness that is quite scary. We have planes that were -- that Harry Truman inaugurated, the B- 52. We have -- the Navy has been gutted and decimated. The readiness of the Marines is way down.If we're serious about America's leadership in the world, then we need to make sure that we have the back of the armed forces. The Armed Forces Radio is here listening to this today. I hope they know that if I'm president, I'll be a commander-in-chief, not an agitator- in-chief or a divider-in-chief, that I will lead this country in a way that will create greater security and greater safety.
So I was -- I was -- I was mentioned, so I can bring up something, I think, right? Look, the simple fact is, if you think this is tough you're not being treated fairly imagine what it's going to be like dealing with Putin or dealing with President Xi.
Or dealing with the Islamic terrorism that exists.
This is a tough business to run for president.
You're never going to be president of the United States by insulting your way to the presidency.
Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter.
Yes.
No it isn't but it is an important subject to talk about for sure. And I think people have good ideas on this. Clearly, we need to secure the border. Coming here legally needs to be a lot easier than coming here illegally.If you don't have that, you don't have the rule of law. We now have a national security consideration, public health issues, we have an epidemic of heroine overdoses in all places in this country because of the ease of bringing heroine in. We have to secure the border.It is a serious undertaking and yes, we do need more fencing and we do need to use technology, and we do need more border control. And we need to have better cooperation by the way with local law enforcement. There are 800,000 cops on the beat, they ought to be trained to be the eyes and ears for law enforcement for the threat against terror as well as for immigration.This is a serious challenge and if we can get it right, yes, we'll start winning votes again. The real problem isn't anybody on this stage, the real problem is Barack Obama has had six years to advocate a position to fix this and he's done nothing. The congress has funded these programs of building more fencing and doing all this and he hasn't done it.He wants to maintain it as a wedge issue and so does Hillary Clinton. Republicans need to fix it and when we do, we'll be better off.I completely agree with Chris. And this administration has been so lax. Think about it. Hillary Clinton is using a private server for -- where classified information go by. This is a -- this is a serious administration?The president receives an inspector general's report that the Office of Personnel Management could be hacked into; they had antiquated firewalls; 23 million files have been -- are in the hands of the Chinese allegedly, including, by the way, members of the press, it turns out, last week. Maybe that's the only part that's good news, so that you guys can get a feel for what it's like now to see this type of attack.This is something -- we have to have the best defensive capabilities. We need to coordinate all of our efforts with the private sector. We need to give them liability relief so that we can do that. And offensively, we need to have capabilities second to none. We need to create a situation where they know that there will be adverse impacts if they continue to do what they're doing.They'll respect that. They'll respect a United States that is serious about protecting our -- our infrastructure. If we don't do it, we'll continue to see what's -- exactly what's happening, not just from the Chinese, by the way. The Russians and rogue actors, including ISIS -- this is a serious part of the 21st century security challenge that we face.Ask yourself, which candidate will keep you and our country safer, stronger and freer?Hillary Clinton has aligned herself with Barack Obama on ISIS, Iran and the economy. It's an alliance doomed to fail. My proven record suggests that -- my detailed plans will fortify our national and economic security. And my proven record as governor makes -- will give you a sense that I don't make false promises. I deliver real results.
For America to be safe and sound, I ask for you support. Thank you all very much.
You've already made two comments, John. It's my turn.I got about four minutes in the last debate. I'm going to get my question right now.
Yes.
First of all, we could get to 4 percent growth. The new normal of 2 percent puts huge demands on government. The reason why we have structural deficits is that more and more people are relying on government and the growth that we don't have makes -- makes the deficit grow.A 4 percent growth strategy starts with tax reform. And the proposal that I've laid out is the one the Wall Street Journal editorial board has said is the most pro- growth of all the proposals out there. We cut the -- we eliminate a lot of deductions and cut the rates down. A corporate rate of 20 percent, which puts us 5 percent above -- below that of China, and allows us full expensing of investing. It would create an explosion of investment back into this country, creating higher-wage jobs, and so that's part of it.On the regulatory side I think we need to repeal every rule that Barack Obama has in terms of work in progress, every one of them.And start over. For those that are already in existence, the regulation of the Internet, we have to start over, but we ought to do that.The clean power act, we ought to repeal that and -- and start over on that. The waters of the United States act, which is going to be devastating for agriculture and many industries, we should repeal that. We should repeal the rules because the economic costs of this far exceed the social benefit. And if we're serious about being serious about high growth, then we have to recognize that small businesses right now, more of them are closing than -- than are -- than are being set up.Hillary Clinton has said that Barack Obama's policies get an A. Really? One in 10 people right now aren't working or have given up altogether, as you said. That's not an A. One in seven people are living in poverty. That's not an A. One in five children are on food stamps. That is not an A. It may be the best that Hillary Clinton can do, but it's not the best America can do.
Thank you, Donald, for allowing me to speak at the debate. That's really nice of you. Really appreciate that.
What a generous man you are. Twelve million illegal immigrants, to send them back, 500,000 a month, is just not -- not possible. And it's not embracing American values. And it would tear communities apart. And it would send a signal that we're not the kind of country that I know America is.And even having this conversation sends a powerful signal -- they're doing high- fives in the Clinton campaign right now when they hear this. That's the problem with this. We have to win the presidency. And the way you win the presidency is to have practical plans. Lay them out there. What we need to do is allow people to earn legal status where they pay a fine, where they work, where they don't commit crimes, where they learn English, and over an extended period of time, they earn legal status. That's the path -- a proper path...
I'm going to fight as hard as I can to make sure that we shift power away from Washington, simplify the tax code, to spur economic activity in this country. Of course it's the highest priority.If we don't do that, we're stuck with the "new normal" of 2 percent growth. Hillary Clinton says, basically, we just got to get used to it. Two percent growth means declining income for the middle class. It means more than 6 million people are stuck in poverty than the day that Barack Obama was inaugurated.
It's 5,600 pages long, so complex that nobody's read it. It's like Obamacare; nobody ever read it. They passed it; nobody read it. And look at mess we have right now. And it will be repealed.But this is one of the worst trade deals. And I would, yes, rather not have it. With all of these countries, and all of the bad ones getting advantage and taking advantage of what the good ones would normally get, I'd rather make individual deals with individual countries. We will do much better.We lose a fortune on trade. The United States loses with everybody. We're losing now over $500 billion in terms of imbalance with China, $75 billion a year imbalance with Japan. By the way, Mexico, $50 billion a year imbalance.So I must say, Gerard, I just think it's a terrible deal. I love trade. I'm a free trader, 100 percent. But we need smart people making the deals, and we don't have smart people making the deals.
It is -- I'd say it is Islamic terrorism, and, back to the question of what we are dealing with in Iraq, when we pull back voids are filled. That's the lesson of history, and, sadly, this president does not believe in American leadership. He does not believe it, and the net result is that we have a caliphate the size of Indiana that gains energy each and everyday to recruit Americans in our own country, and the threat to the homeland relates to the fact that we have not dealt with this threat of terror in the Middle East.We should have a no fly zone in Syria. We should have a support for the remnants of the Syrian Free Army, and create safe zones. If you want to deal with the four million refugees that are leaving Syria because of the devastation there, then we 'ought to create safe zones for them to stay in the region rather than go to Europe. And, that requires American leadership.Without American leadership every other country in the neighborhood beings to change their priorities. It is tragic that you see Iraq, and other countries now talking to Russia. It wasn't that long ago that Russia had no influence in the region at all. And, so, the United States needs to lead across the board.This president, and Hillary Clinton both do not believe the United States has a leadership role to play, and we're now paying a price, and it will have a huge impact on the economy of this country if we don't deal with this.
Donald -- Donald's wrong on this. He is absolutely wrong on this. We're not going to be the world's policeman, but we sure as heck better be the world's leader.
I mean, that's like a board game, that's like playing Monopoly or something. That's not how the real world works.We have to lead, we have to be involved. We should have a no fly zone in Syria. There are -- they are barrel bombing the innocents in that country. If you're a Christian, increasingly in Lebanon, or Iraq, or Syria, you're going to be beheaded. And, if you're a moderate Islamist, you're not going to be able to survive either.We have to play a role in this be able to bring the rest of the world to this issue before it's too late.
We're not -- we shouldn't have another financial crisis. What we ought to do is raise the capital requirements so banks aren't too big to fail. Dodd-Frank has actually done the opposite, totally the opposite, where banks now have higher concentration of risk in assets and the capital requirements aren't high enough. If we were serious about it, we would raise the capital requirements and lessen the load on the community banks and other financial institutions. This vast overreach has created a huge problem for our country, and Hillary Clinton wants to double down on that.I was in Washington, Iowa, about three months ago talking about how bad Washington, D.C., is. It was -- get the -- kind of the -- anyway. We had it -- and I talked to a banker there. This is a bank that had $125 million of assets, four branches. Their compliance costs because of Dodd-Frank went from $100,000 to $600,000 in a two-year period. The net effect of that is -- and they had -- they had not one loan that went bad during the financial crisis. They knew -- they knew their borrowers. They gave back to the community. They were engaged in the community. And imagine America without its community banks. Well, that's what's happening because of Dodd-Frank. That's -- that's my worry. My worry is that the real economy has been hurt by the vast overreach of the Obama administration.And Hillary Clinton, she wants to double down on that. She wants to create even more so. She is a captive of the left of her party to the point now where she is -- she was for the trade agreement in -- the Pacific agreement. Now she's against it. She was -- hinted she was for the XL pipeline. Now she's opposed to it. All the things that would create sustained economic growth she's now doubling down against it.
No, I can't say that. But I can say, if you created higher capital requirements, that's the solution to this, not having concentration of assets. The bigger banks now have more and more control over -- over the financial assets of this country. And that is the wrong approach to take.We've had a 10% reduction in carbon emissions, and it isn't because of Solyndra. It isn't because of the central planners in Washington D.C. It's because we've had a great American success story, the explosion of natural gas.Taking two existing technologies, and applying it through innovation has created lower carbon emissions, lower energy costs -- 40% of all the economic activity in the age of Obama has come from the energy sector, and Hillary Clinton wants to suppress that. We -- I think we ought to be expanding this. High growth is the path to lower carbon, and more jobs.I know for a fact, as Governor of the State of Florida, we created the largest land purchasing programs, and environment clean-up programs because we had a growing economy. Our revenues were growing at 4.4%. It allowed for resources to be able to protect the natural system.We got to get to a conservation in environmental policy that goes beyond just carbon...
Jane Horton is sitting with my wife here today. Her husband, Chris, was killed in action in Afghanistan. And Jane spends her time now defending and fighting for military families. They're both heroes.I don't think we need an agitator-in-chief or a divider-in-chief. We need a commander-in-chief that will rebuild our military and restore respect to our veterans by revamping and fixing a broken Veterans Administration, That's my pledge to you. I ask for your support. Thank you.
You know, I am by my nature impatient. And this is not an endeavor that rewards that. You gotta be patient. You gotta be -- stick with it, and all that.But also, I can't fake anger. I believe this is still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth. And it troubles me that people are rewarded for tearing down our country. It's never been that way in American politics before.
I can't do it. I just don't believe that this country's days are going to be deeply -- you know, going down. I think we're on the verge of the greatest time, and I want to fix the things to let people rise up.
Could I -- could I bring something up here, because I'm a constituent of the senator and I helped him and I expected that he would do constituent service, which means that he shows up to work. He got endorsed by the Sun- Sentinel because he was the most talented guy in the field. He's a gifted politician.But Marco, when you signed up for this, this was a six-year term, and you should be showing up to work. I mean, literally, the Senate -- what is it, like a French work week? You get, like, three days where you have to show up? You can campaign, or just resign and let someone else take the job. There are a lot of people living paycheck to paycheck in Florida as well, they're looking for a senator that will fight for them each and every day.He wasn't my senator.No, no. What I said was I don't believe that I would be president of the United States and have the same dysfunction that exists in Washington, D.C. now.
Don't vote for me if you want to keep the gridlock in Washington, D.C.
But if you want someone who has a proven, effective leadership, that was a governor of a state, that transformed the culture there, elect me so I can fight for the American people and change the culture in Washington, D.C.
The great majority of Republicans and Americans believe in a hopeful future. They don't believe in building walls and a pessimistic view of the future.They're concerned that Washington is so dysfunctional it is holding them back. There are lids on people's aspirations. Think about it: six and a half million people working part-time. Workforce participation rates lower than they were in 1977.Six million more people living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president, and the left just wants more of the same. We have to offer a compelling alternative that is based on hope and optimism and grounded in serious policy, which I've laid out.
And you can go get it at jeb2016.com.
Well, the deal was done. Barack Obama got his massive tax increase, and there was no spending cuts. You just see the recent deal announced today or yesterday, more spending, more tax increasing, more regulation. And now we have to accept 2 percent, the new normal for economic growth.And the net result is the middle class has $2,300 less in their pockets than the day that Barack Obama got elected president. And now they see Hillary Clinton proposing a third term of economic policy for our country.We need to reverse that. And my record was one of cutting taxes each and every year. You don't have to guess about it, because I actually have a record. $19 billion of tax cuts, 1.3 million jobs created. We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating, and our government spending was far less than the spending in people's income.
You find me a Democrat -- you find me a Democrat that will cut spending ten dollars? Heck, find me a Republican in Congress that would cut spending ten dollars. I'll talk to them.
Look, the -- the deal is already done. The biggest tax increase happened under the watch of Barack Obama, and spending's gone up. You find a Democrat that's for cutting taxes -- cutting spending ten dollars, I'll give them a warm kiss.
Look, the -- the simple fact is that my plan actually gives the middle class the greatest break: $2,000 per family. And if you make $40,000 a year, a family of four, you don't pay any income tax at all.Simplifying the code and lowering rates, both for corporations and -- and personal rates, is exactly what we need to do. You think about the regulatory cost and the tax cost -- that's why small businesses are closing, rather than being formed in our country right now.The big corporations have the scale to deal with all of this. And what I think all of us are saying is, our monetary policy, our tax policy, regulatory policy needs to be radically changed so we can create high sustained growth for income to rise.The government has tried it their way. Under -- under Barack Obama and the proposals of Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and others, they've tried it their way, and it has failed miserably.We need to take a new approach of taxing -- reforming how we tax, and reforming the regulations in our -- in our
country before it's too late.
We don't need the federal government to be involved in this at all.
We don't need the Federal Government to be involved in this, because when they do we create a $1.2 trillion debt.In Florida, we have the lowest in-state tuition of any state, because there's accountability, just as John said. Let the states do this. You'll create a much better graduation rate at a lower cost, and you won't in debt the next generation with recourse debt on their backs.It's always a solution of the left to create more Government from the Federal Government. It is broke, it is not working.Well, first of all, I'm 7 and 0 in my fantasy league.
Gronkowski is still going strong. I have Ryan Tannehill, Marco, as my quarterback, he was 18 for 19 last week. So I'm doing great. But we're not gambling.And I think this has become something that needs to be looked at in terms of regulation. Effectively it is day trading without any regulation at all. And when you have insider information, which apparently has been the case, where people use that information and use big data to try to take advantage of it, there has to be some regulation.If they can't regulate themselves, then the NFL needs to look at just, you know, moving away from them a little bit. And there should be some regulation. I have no clue whether the federal government is the proper place, my instinct is to say, hell no, just about everything about the federal government.Becky, he governor's absolutely right. But we also need to reform Medicare and Social Security. We can't just allow it to continue on its current path the way that Hillary Clinton wants to do because there'll be major reductions in benefits in the next decade if we do nothing.I have a concrete plan to do just that, which allows people to keep HSAs to encourage savings, it allows for people that are retiring with Social Security to be able to get a minimum of 125 percent of the poverty level so that there is a baseline that in this generous country of ours no one goes below.
You have to reform Social Security, and the simple way to do it is to make sure that the wealthiest don't receive the same benefits as people that are lower-income.
And make sure you enhance savings in the private market. The idea of 401(k)s. I have a small business that I set up. It took -- it took an arm and a leg to be able to set up a 401(k). Because of all the federal mandates and federal laws, it was too expensive.We need to incent private savings and make sure that Social Security is protected for those that have it.
But the idea that you can't -- that you're just gonna grow your way out of this -- I have a plan to grow the economy at 4 percent, but you're gonna have to make adjustments for both Medicare and Social Security.America's at a crossroads. The D.C. politicians continue to make things worse. I have a proven record of success, 32 years in business, and 8 years as Governor of the state of Florida.I will change the culture in Washington, just as I changed the culture in Tallahassee. I will do so in a way that will bring people together. We need a unifier, not a cynical divider in chief, and that's exactly what I will do.Imagine a country where people are lifted out of poverty again. Imagine a country where the middle class can get rising income again. I know we can do this because we're still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.
Im Jeb Bush, and I believe Americas on the verge of its greatest century, and Im ready to lead. Im a committed, conservative reformer that cut taxes, that balanced budgets, that took on the special interest in Florida, and we won.I look forward to talking tonight about how we can fix a broken Washington D.C., and create an environment where people can rise up again in this great country.Thank you.
I think the voters will make that determination.But what I know to be true is that the next president of the United States is going to have to fix an extraordinary difficult situation. This administration, with President Obama and Hillary Clinton, has created insecurity the likes of which we never wouldve imagined. Theres not a place in the world where were better off today than six and a half years ago.And that requires a steadiness. That requires an understanding of how the world works. That requires an understanding and appreciation of American leadership in the world.You cant just, you know, talk about this stuff and insult leaders around the world and expect a good result. You have to do this with a steady hand, and I believe I have those skills.
No. Absolutely not. People are supporting me because I have a proven record of conservative leadership where I cut taxes $19 billion over eight years. We shrunk the state government workforce, we created a climate that led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years. We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating. People know that we need principle-centered leadership, a disrupter to go to Washington, D.C. The one guy that had some special interests that I know of that tried to get me to change my views on something  that was generous and gave me money  was Donald Trump. He wanted casino gambling in Florida 
Yes you did.
You wanted it and you didnt get it because I was opposed to casino gambling before during and after. And thats not  Im not going to be bought by anybody. No way. Believe me.
Not even possible.
Youve got, according to your  to what you said on one of
the talk shows, you got Hillary Clinton to go to your wedding because you gave her money. Maybe it works for Hillary Clinton it doesnt work for anybody on this  on stage.I was asked the question.
So he supports Pelosi, he supports Schumer, he supports Clinton 
When he  and he  when he asked  when he asked Florida to have casino gambling, we said no.We said no. And thats the simple fact. The simple fact is 
Dont cut me off.
No, I dont think so, but we need to be strong against China. We should use offensive tactics as it relates to cyber security, send a deterrent signal to China. There should be super sanctions in what President Obama has proposed. Theres many other tools that we have without canceling a dinner. Thats not going to change anything, but we can be much stronger as it relates to that.As it relates to Iran, its not a strategy to tear up an agreement. A strategy would be how do we confront Iran? And, the first thing that we need to do is to establish our commitment to Israel which has been altered by this administration. And, make sure that they have the most sophisticated weapons to send a signal to Iran that we have Israels back.
If we do that, its going to create a healthier deterrent effect than anything else I can think of.
I think there needs to be accommodation for someone acting on faith. Religious conscience is  is  is a first freedom. Its  its a powerful part of our  of our Bill of Rights.
And, in a big, tolerant country, we should respect the rule of law, allow people in  in  in this country  Im a  I was opposed to the decision, but we  you cant just say, well, they  gays cant get married now.But this woman, there should be some accommodation for her conscience, just as there should be for people that are florists that dont want to participate in weddings, or bakers. A great country like us should find a way to have accommodations for people so that we can solve the problem in the right way. This should be solved at the local level...
And so we do agree, Mike.
Well, hes wrong on a lot of things, but on this hes wrong because Im the most pro-life governor on this stage. I got to act on my core beliefs. Its part of who I am. Life is a gift from God. And from beginning end we need to respect it and err on the side of life.And so I defunded Planned Parenthood. We created a climate where parental notification took place. We were the only state to fund crisis pregnancy centers with state moneys. We were totally focused on this. And I would bring that kind of philosophy to Washington, D.C.So here is a solution to this. Title X of the HHS funding, there is something that was the Reagan Rule. It was passed in 1988. And in that rule it was defined, and the courts approved this, that a Planned Parenthood, you couldnt separate the money between the actual abortion procedures, and there are 330,000 abortions that take place in this clinic, and their promotion of it.He interpreted it the right way, the courts ruled in his favor, and Planned Parenthood did not get funding during that time until President Clinton came in.When Im elected president, we will restore that interpretation of Title X. And this deal will be finished.There are 13,000 community-based organizations that provide health services to women, 13,000 in this country. I dont believe that Planned Parenthood should get a
penny from the federal government. Those organizations should get funding, just as I increased funding when I was governor of the state.Thats the way you do this is you improve the condition for people. And, Donald, when I was governor, we also increased the opportunities for women.Womens income grew three times faster than the national average when I was governor.
we increased child support  we increased child support with a broken system by 90 percent.
I have a proven record. I have a proven record.
He did, he did. Youre proud of your family, just as I am.
To subject my wife into the middle of a raucous political conversation was completely inappropriate, and I hope you apologize for that, Donald.
She is. Shes fantastic.
She is absolutely the love of my life, and shes right here...
And why dont you apologize to her right now.
Yeah.
So, heres the deal. My wife is a Mexican-American. Shes an American by choice.She loves this country as much as anybody in this room, and she wants a secure border. But she wants to embrace the traditional American values that make us special and make us unique.Were at a crossroads right now. Are we going to take the Reagan approach, the hopeful optimistic approach, the approach that says that, you come to our country legally, you pursue your dreams with a vengeance, you create opportunities for all of us?Or the Donald Trump approach? The approach that says that everything is bad, that everything is coming to an end. 
Look, first of all, I wrote a book about this, three  four years ago, now. And I laid out a comprehensive, conservative approach for immigration reform.And it does require securing the border. No one disagrees with that. But to build a wall, and to deport people  half a million a month  would cost hundreds of billions of dollars, Donald. Hundreds of billions of dollars. It would destroy community life, it would tear families apart.And it would send a signal to the rest of the world that the United States values that are so important for our long-term success no longer matter in this country.
Well, Ive been speaking English here tonight, and Ill keep speaking English.But the simple fact is, if a high school kid asks me a question in Spanish, a school  by the way, a voucher program that was created under my watch, the largest voucher program in the country, where kids can go to a Christian school, and they ask me a question in Spanish, Im going to show respect and answer that question in Spanish.Even though they do speak English, and even though they embrace American values.
Yeah.
Well, first of all, Hugh, if youre looking at Republican advisers, you have to go to the last two administrations. That happened to be 41 and 43. So just by definition, if youre  and many of the people here that are seeking advice from the foreign policy experts in the Republican side, they  they served in my dads administration, my brothers administration. Of course thats the case.But Im my own man. Im going to create a strategy that is based on the simple fact that the United States needs to lead the world. The first thing that we need to do is to stop the craziness of the sequester.Rebuild our military so that our  so that we dont deploy people over and over again without the necessary equipment to keep them safe, to send a signal to the world that were serious. If were going to lead the world, then we need to have the strongest military possible.We need to rebuild our counterintelligence and intelligence capabilities. We need to focus on the fact that the next president is going to start in 2017, not in 1990  you know, 30 years ago, or when my brother started.The world is dramatically different. And I believe that we need to restore Americas presence and leadership in the world. Name a country where our relationship is better today than it was the  the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
Under Hillary Clinton, and Barack Obama, we have seen a weakness that now creates huge problems for the next president of the United States. So Ill have a team that will be  that will be following the doctrine I set up, and it will be peace through strength.Were sitting here in this library, which is a wonderful place to talk about this, because thats exactly what happened in the 1980s, and the world was a lot safer because of...
Right after me, and then Ill  Ill yield  yield the floor. What do you guys say in the Senate when youre talking and debating?
Heres the facts: When Donald Trump talks about judgment, what was his position on who wouldve been the best negotiator to deal with Iran? It wasnt a Republican; it was Hillary Clinton. Thats what you believe. I mean, the lack of judgment and the lack of understanding about how the world works is really dangerous in this kind of time that were saying.So is that the judgment that you bring to the table, that Hillary Clinton is a great negotiator, that she could bring about a better deal on Iran?
You know what? As it relates to my brother, theres one thing I know for sure. He kept us safe.I dont know if you remember, Donald, you remember the  the rumble? You remember the fire fighter with his arms around it? He sent a clear signal that the United States would be strong and fight Islamic terrorism, and he did keep us safe.
Thats  thats my brother.
Heres the lessons of history: When we  we pull back, voids are created. We left Iraq. We shouldve had a  a forces agreement to stay there with a small force, and instead of that, we politically and militarily pulled back, and now we have the creation of ISIS.36 days ago in this very library, I gave a speech with a comprehensive strategy how to take out ISIS, and it requires American leadership and engagement. We dont have to be the worlds policemen. But we certainly have to be the worlds leader.We need to have  make sure that the world knows that were serious, that were engaged, that were not going to pull back, that  that our  that our word matters. And if we do that, we can create a force that will take out ISIS both in Iraq and in Syria, which will take a lot longer time now because of what President Obamas done by pulling back.
Well, Im surprised Senator Cruz would say that since he was as strong supporter of John Roberts at the time.I will talk about what I will do as it relates to appointing Supreme Court Justices. We need to make sure that we have justices that, with a proven experienced record of respect for upholding the constitution. That is what we need. We cant have  the history in recent past is appoint people that have no experience so that you cant get attacked.And, that makes it harder for people to have confidence that they wont veer off...
John Roberts has made some really good decisions, for sure, but he did not have a proven, extensive record that would have made the clarity the important thing, and thats what we need to do. And, Im willing to fight for those nominees to make sure that they get passed. You cant do it the politically expedient way anymore. This is the culture in Washington. You have to fight hard for these appointments. This is perhaps the most important thing that the next president will do.
Well, first of all, he, as I said, supported John Roberts. He supported him, publicly. So, you can rewrite history, I guess, Ted, but the simple fact is that you supported him because he had all the criteria that you would have thought would have made a great justice. And, I think he is doing a good job.But, the simple fact is that going forward, what we need to do is to have someone that has a long standing set of rulings that consistently makes it clear that he is a focused, exclusively on upholding the Constitution of the United States so they wont try to use the bench as a means to which legislate.
He was talking about me.
Well, I  I wanted to  be  make it easier for him.
And I just did.
So, 40 years ago, I smoked marijuana, and I admit it. Im sure that other people might have done it and may not want to say it in front of 25 million people. My moms not happy that I just did.Thats true. And heres the deal. Heres the deal. We have  we have a serious epidemic of drugs that goes way beyond marijuana. What goes on in Colorado, as far as Im concerned, that should be a state decision.But if you look at the problem of drugs in this  in this society today, its a serious problem. Rand, you know this because youre campaigning in New Hampshire like all of us, and you see the epidemic of heroin, the overdoses of heroin thats taking place.Peoples families are  are being torn apart. It is appropriate for the government to play a consistent role to be able to provide more treatment, more prevention  were the state that has the most drug courts across every circuit in  in  in Florida, there are drug courts to give people a second chance.Thats the best way to do this.Heres the deal. No, I did not oppose when the legislature passed the bill to deal with that very issue. Thats the way to solve this problem.Medical marijuana on the ballot was opened up, there was a huge loophole, it was the first step to getting to a (inaudible) place. And as a citizen of Florida, I voted no.
Not very far.I think we need to do this state by state. There are places that get this right, and we need to make sure that we protect the privacy laws. This is a complicated place. But I do think the natural impulse on the left  Hillary Clinton, immediately after one of these horrific violent acts took place, immediately said we need to have federal gun laws. President Obama almost reflexively always says the same thing.And the net result is, youre going to take away rights of  of law-abiding citizens, the 99.999 percent of the people that are law- abiding citizens. Thats not the right approach to do it.In Florida, we have a background check. We have concealed-weapon permit holders, and in fact, theres 1,200,000 of them. We have a reduction in violent crime because we put people behind bars when they use a gun in the commission of the crime. Thats the better approach.But were living in a society today where despair kind of grows in isolation.
 I  I think there needs to be a hearing, but the fact is, we need to encourage that kind of involvement. Thats  thats exactly what we need to do.
I would go with Ronald Reagans partner, Margaret Thatcher. Probably illegal, but what the heck?
Since its not going to happen. A strong leader is what we need in the White House, and she certainly was a strong leader that restored the United Kingdom into greatness.
Ever Ready, its very high energy, Donald.
Six million more people are living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president. Six million more people. The middle class has had declining income, workforce participation rates are lower than they were in 1977.For the first time in modern history, more businesses are failing than are being created. That is what the next president will have to deal with.And I believe we can reverse course by creating a strategy of high sustained economic growth, not the new normal of 2 percent that all the left says we just have to get used to, but a 4 percent growth strategy where we reform how we tax, fix the broken regulatory system, embrace the energy revolution in our midst, fix the immigration system so we can turn it into an economic driver, deal with the structural fiscal problems that exist because of our entitlement problems that will overwhelm and create way too much debt.If we grow at 4 percent, people are going to be lifted out of poverty. The great middle that defines our country will have a chance to be able to pursue their dreams as they see fit.That should be the great challenge and the great opportunity for the next president of the United States, to forge consensus to go back to a high-growth strategy. And then well be able to lead the world.Without a high-growth strategy, our country will never have the resources or the optimism to be able to lead the world, which the world desperately needs our leadership.Absolutely, I do, and Im gonna run hard, run with heart, and run to win.Im gonna have to earn this. Maybe the barrier  the bars even higher for me. Thats
fine.Ive got a record in Florida. Im proud of my dad, and Im certainly proud of my brother. In Florida, they called me Jeb, because I earned it.I cut taxes every year, totaling $19 billion. We were  we had  we balanced every budget. We went from $1 billion of reserves to $9 billion of reserves.We were one of two states that went to AAA bond rating.They keep  they called me Veto Corleone. Because I vetoed 2,500 separate line- items in the budget.I am my own man. I governed as a conservative, and I govern effectively. And the net effect was, during my eight years, 1.3 million jobs were created. We left the state better off because I applied conservative principles in a purple state the right way, and people rose up.
I do. I believe that the great majority of people coming here illegally have no other option. They want to provide for their family.But we need to control our border. Its not  its our responsibility to pick and choose who comes in. So I  Ive written a book about this and yet this week, I did come up with a comprehensive strategy that  that really mirrored what we said in the book, which is that we need to deal with E-Verify, we need to deal with people that come with a legal visa and overstay.We need to be much more strategic on how we deal with border enforcement, border security. We need to eliminate the sanctuary cities in this country. It is ridiculous and tragic that people are dying because of the fact that  that local governments are not following the federal law. Theres much to do. And I think rather than talking about this as a wedge issue, which Barack Obama has done now for six long years, the next president  and I hope to be that president  will fix this once and for all so that we can turn this into a driver for high sustained economic growth.And there should be a path to earned legal status for those that are here. Not  not amnesty, earned legal status, which means you pay a fine and do many things over an extended period of time.
Knowing what we know now, with faulty intelligence, and not having security be the first priority when  when we invaded, it was a mistake. I wouldnt have gone in, however, for the people that did lose their lives, and the families that suffer because of it  I know this full well because as governor of the state of Florida, I called every one of them. Every one of them that I could find to tell them that I was praying for them, that I cared about them, and it was really hard to do.And, every one of them said that their child did not die in vain, or their wife, of their husband did not die in vain.So, why it was difficult for me to do it was based on that. Heres the lesson that we should take from this, which relates to this whole subject, Barack Obama became president, and he abandoned Iraq. He left, and when he left Al Qaida was done for. ISIS was created because of the void that we left, and that void now exists as a caliphate the size of Indiana.To honor the people that died, we need to  we need to  stop the  Iran agreement, for sure, because the Iranian mullahs have their blood on their hands, and we need to take out ISIS with every tool at our disposal.
No, I dont. And I dont believe the federal government should be involved in the creation of standards directly or indirectly, the creation of curriculum or content. It is clearly a state responsibility.Im for higher standards measured in an intellectually honest way, with abundant school choice, ending social promotion. And I know how to do this because as governor of the state of Florida I created the first statewide voucher program in the country, the second statewide voucher program, in the country and the third statewide voucher program in the country.And we had rising student achievement across the board, because high standards, robust accountability, ending social promotion in third grade, real school choice across the
board, challenging the teachers union and beating them is the way to go.And Floridas low income kids had the greatest gains inside the country. Our graduation rate improved by 50 percent. Thats what Im for.He is definitely my friend. And I think the states ought to create these standards. And if states want to opt out of Common Core, fine. Just make sure your standards are high.Because today in America, a third of our kids, after we spend more per student than any country in the world other than a couple rounding errors, to be honest with you, 30 percent are college- and/or career-ready.
If we are going to compete in this world were in today, there is no possible way we can do it with lowering expectations and dumbing down everything. Children are going to suffer and families hearts are going to be broken that their kids wont be able to get a job in the 21st Century.
Weve done it 27 times since World War II. I think we need to lift our spirits and have high, lofty expectations for this great country of ours.The new normal of two percent that the left is saying you cant do anything about is so dangerous for our country. Theres 6 million people living in poverty today, more than when Barack Obama got elected. 6.5 million people are working part-time, most of whom want to work full-time. Weve created rules and taxes on top of every aspiration of people, and the net result is were not growing fast, income is not growing. A four percent growth strategy means you fix a convoluted tax code. You get in and you change every aspect of regulations that are job killers. You get rid of Obamacare and replace it with something that doesnt suppress wages and kill jobs.
You embrace the energy revolution in our country. This president and Hillary Clinton, who cant even say shes for the X.L. pipeline even after shes left? Give me a break. Of course were for it. We should be for these things to create high sustained economic growth. And frankly, fixing our immigration system and turning it into an economic driver is part of this as well. We can do this.
I joined the Bloomberg Foundation because of Mike Bloombergs shared commitment for meaningful education reform. Thats why I was on it. We never had a debate about the budget. It was presented and we approved it. Not item by item.Heres my record: As governor of the state of Florida, I defunded Planned Parenthood. I created a culture of life in our state.
We were the only state to appropriate money for crisis pregnancy centers. We expand dramatically the number adoptions out of our foster care system. We did parental notification laws. We ended partial-birth abortion. We did all of this and we were the first state to do a choose life license plate. Now 29 states have done it, and tens of millions of dollars have gone to create a culture where more people, more babies are adopted.
No, I didnt know. But it doesnt matter. I was working on the board because of education.My record is clear. My record as a pro-life governor is not in dispute. I am completely pro-life, and I believe that we should have a culture of life. Its informed by my faith from beginning to end.
And I this not just as it related to unborn babies, I did it at the end of life issues as well. This is something that goes way beyond politics. And I hope one day we get to the point where we respect life in its fullest form across the board.
None of which is true.
No. Its not true. But I have said that Mr. Trumps language is divisive.I want to win. I want one of these people here or the ones at 5:00, to be the next president of the United States.Were not going on win by doing what Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton do each and every day. Dividing the country. Saying, creating a grievance kind of environment. Were going to win when we unite people with a hopeful, optimistic message. I have that message because I was a governor of a state that saw people lifted up, because we had high sustained economic growth. Our economy grew at double the rate of the nation. We created 1.3 million jobs. We led the nation seven out of those eight years. We were only one of two states that went to AAA bond rating. I cut taxes, $19 billion. If you do that and apply conservative principles the right way, you create an environment where everybody rises up. Thats how were going to win. Campaigning in places to give people hope that their life is better because too many people are suffering today in America.
Heres what I believe. I believe were at the verge of the greatest time to be alive in this world.But Washington is holding us back. How we tax, how we regulate. Were not embracing the energy revolution in our midst, a broken immigration system that has been politicized rather than turning it into an economic driver.Were not protecting and preserving our entitlement system or reforming for the next generation. All these things languish while we have politicians in Washington using these as wedge issues.Heres my commitment to you, because I did it as Florida. We can fix these things. We can grow economically and restore Americas leadership in the world, so that everybody has a chance to rise up. I humbly ask for your vote, whenever youre gonna get to vote, whenever the primary is. Thank you all very much.Right.
Not on specific issues, not at all. I think the next president  if Im president, I will appoint people  Ill nominate people that have a proven record in the judiciary.The problem in the past has been we have appointed people thinking you can get it through the Senate because they didnt have a record. And the problem is that sometimes were surprised.The simple fact is the next president needs to appoint someone with a proven conservative record, similar to Justice Scalia, that is a lover of liberty, that believes in limited government, that consistently applied that kind of philosophy, that didnt try to legislator from the bench, that was respectful of the Constitution.And then fight and fight, and fight for that nomination to make sure that that nomination passes.Of course, the president, by the way, has every right to nominate Supreme Court justices. Im an Article II guy in the Constitution. Were running for the president of the United States. We want a strong executive for sure. But in return for that, there should be a consensus orientation on that nomination, and theres no doubt in my mind that Barack Obama will not have a consensus pick when he submits that person to the Senate.
Yes.
No, it doesnt, and thats the problem. The lack of leadership in this country by Barack Obama, John Kerry, Hillary Clinton, thinking that this is a policy that works, this policy of containment with ISIS. Its a complete, unmitigated disaster. And to allow Russia now to have influence in Syria makes it harder, but we need to destroy ISIS and dispose of Assad to create a stable Syria so that the four million refugees arent a breeding ground for Islamic jihadists.This is the problem. Donald Trump brought up the fact that he would  hed want to accommodate Russia. Russia is not taking out ISIS. Theyre  theyre attacking our  our  our team, the team that weve been training and the team that weve been supporting. It is absolutely ludicrous to suggest that Russia could be a positive partner in this. They are on the run. They are making  every time we step back, theyre on the run. The question that you asked was a really good one about what you would do  what three things would you do.I would restore the military, the sequester needs to be reversed. I would have a strategy to destroy ISIS, and I would immediately create a policy of containment as it relates to Irans ambitions, and to make it make clear that we are not going to allow for Iran to do what its doing, which is to move towards a nuclear weapon.Those three things would be the first and foremost things that we need to do in 2017.
The very basic fact is that Vladimir Putin is not going to be an ally of the United States. The whole world knows this. Its a simple, basic fact.
Theyre not taking out  theyre not even attempting to take out ISIS. Theyre attacking the troops that were supporting. We need to create a coalition, Sunni-led coalition on the ground with our special operators to destroy ISIS and bring about stability. And you cant do that with Assad in power.
This is coming from a guy who gets his foreign policy from the shows.
This is a guy who thinks that Hillary Clinton is a great negotiator in Iran.
This is a man who insults his way to the nomination.
I think its my turn, isnt it?
Do I get to do it five or six times or just once, responding to that?
So heres the deal. Im sick and tired of Barack Obama blaming my brother for all of the problems that he has had.
And, frankly, I could care less about the insults that Donald Trump gives to me. Its blood sport for him. He enjoys it. And Im glad hes happy about it. I am sick and tired of him going after my family. My dad is the greatest man alive in my mind.And while Donald Trump was building a reality TV show, my brother was building a security apparatus to keep us safe. And Im proud of what he did.And he has had the gall to go after my brother.
He has had the gall to go after my mother.
Look, I won the lottery when I was born 63 years ago, looked up, and I saw my mom. My mom is the strongest woman I know.
This is not about my family or his family. This is about the South Carolina families that need someone to be a commander in chief that can lead. Im that person.
Im not going to invite Donald Trump to the rally in Charleston on Monday afternoon when my brother is coming to speak.
Im rescinding the invitation. I thought you might want to come, but I guess not.
Look, I admire the fact that Governor Kasich is supporting spending more money on drug treatment and mental health. I think thats a high priority all across this country, but expanding Obamacare is what were talking about, and Obamacares expansion, even though the federal government is paying for the great majority of it, is creating further debt on the backs of our children and grandchildren. We should be fighting Obamacare, repealing Obamacare, replacing it with something totally different.When I was  as a private citizen, Florida was confronted with the choice. The governor was supportive of doing what John did. So was the Florida Senate. A committed speaker of the House asked me to go as a private citizen to make the case against the expansion.I did, and it wasnt expanded there, just as it wasnt expanded in South Carolina under Governor Haley.
South Carolina  South Carolinians need to know this, because the Cato Institute, which grades governors based on their spending, rank him right at the bottom.
And Governor Haley is ranked at the top.No. He mentioned my name.
South Carolinians want to make that, they elect the most conservative governor or candidate that can win.Of course not. It wont have an impact on hedge funds managers paying ordinary income. In fact, its not just hedge fund people, but people that are doing  theyre in the business of investing other peoples money, getting capital gains treatment is not appropriate.
They should be paying ordinary income. Thats their business. Theyre grateful to be able to make a lot of money, Im sure. And what we do is lower the rates. Its not the end of the world that private equity people and hedge fund folks that are, right now, getting capital gains treatment for the income they earn, pay ordinary income like everybody else in this room. Thats not a problem at all. What we need to do is reform the tax code to simplify the rates, to shift power away from Washington, D.C. Thats what I did as governor of the state of Florida, $19 billion dollars of tax cuts, and it stimulated seven out of the eight years. Florida led the nation in job growth.
Thank you.
Great question. I feel like I have to get into my inner Chris Christie, and point out that the reason why I should be president is listening to two senators talk about arcane amendments to bills that didnt pass.This is  this is the problem. We need a leader to fix this problem. And I have a detailed plan to do just that, including controlling the border, dealing with the visa over-stayers, making sure that we have a path to legal status, not to citizenship, for those that come out from the shadows and pay a fine, learn English, dont commit crimes, work and pay taxes.That is the better approach.
The great majority of people that come to this country come because they have no other choice. They want to come to provide for their families. That doesnt mean its right. That doesnt mean its right.We should pick who comes to our country. We should control our border. Coming here legally should be a lot easier than coming here illegally. But the motivation, theyre not all rapists, as you-know-who said. Theyre not that.These are people that are coming to provide for their families. And we should show a little more respect for the fact that theyre struggling. It doesnt mean we shouldnt be controlling the border. Thats exactly what we should be doing.
But, if you want to talk about weakness, you want to talk about weakness? Its weak to disparage women.
Its weak to denigrate the disabled. And,its really weak to call John McCain a loser because he was an American hero.
So, there  so, there is all sorts of intrigue about where I disagree with my brother, there would be one right there. You should not use eminent domain for private purposes.Its very different. Transmission lines, pipe lines, bridges and highways. All of that is proper use of imminent domain. Not to take an elderly womans home to build a parking lot so that high-rollers can come from New York City to build casinos in Atlantic City.
My name was mentioned twice.
He called me a liar.
Also, he talked about one of my heroes, Ronald Reagan.Ronald Reagan was a liberal maybe in the 1950s. He was a conservative reformed governor for eight years before he became president, and no one should suggest he made an evolution for political purposes. He was a conservative, and he didnt tear down people like Donald Trump is. He tore down the Berlin Wall.He was a great guy.
That was me.
Yeah, well, I have got to respond to this.
 Sounds like a good plan.
Or you could ask me two questions, so I could get two minutes instead of one.
I think the dysfunction in Washington is really dangerous, thats what I think. And we need a proven leader that has a record of solving problems, someone who doesnt cut and run; someone who could be a commander in chief to unite our country around common purposes; someone who doesnt disparage people.Someone that doesnt brag, for example, that he has been bankrupt four times and it was great, because he could use the legal system.
We need someone with a proven record to be able to forge consensus to solve problems.And right now, both Republicans and Democrats in Washington dont get it. People are struggling  63 percent of Americans cant make a $500 car payment. Most Americans are living paycheck to paycheck. And we need someone has a proven record of growing the economy, reforming the things that are broken.And Im that person.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Here we go.
Heres the record. Heres the record. We led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years. When I left there was $9 billion of reserves, 35 percent of general revenue. No state came close to that.
When I  during my time, we were one of the two states to go to AAA bond rating. We didnt go bankrupt like Trump did and call it success when people are laid off, when vendors dont get paid. Thats not success.What we did was create an environment where people had a chance to have income. Personal income during my time went up by 4.4 percent.
The government grew by half of that.
Thank you all very much. The next president is going to be confronted with an unforeseen challenge. Thats almost certain. It could be a pandemic, a major natural disaster or an attack on our country. The question for South Carolinians and Americans is who do you want to have sitting behind the big desk in the Oval Office? Because thats the question. Its not the things were talking about today. Its the great challenge that may happen. I believe I will have a steady hand as commander in chief and president of the United States. I will unite this country around common purposes because I did it as governor of the state of Florida.When I was governor, we had eight hurricanes and four tropical storms in 16 months. Our state was on its back. We recovered far faster than what people thought because we led.We want to challenge rather than cutting and running. Thats what we need in Washington, D.C. We need someone with a servants heart that has a backbone, that isnt going to focus on polls and focus groups. The focus will be on the American people to keep them safe and secure.I ask for your vote next Saturday.
How y'all doing?I do, too.They're comfortable.Yeah.Well, it's a blast being with George, because I love him dearly, and - and this is the first time out that he'd been campaigning for a candidate, and I'm honored that h did it for me. I would have been disappointed had he not done it for me, to be honest with you.And my mother is a superstar. She is - people just love her dearly, and I do, too.So she - couple of weeks ago she was out campaigning in New Hampshire, and it was the first time she'd seen snow in a while. So we brought her to the warmer climes of South Carolina for tomorrow, on our bus tour, so it's better.Sure.Well, I always get in trouble when the Pope says things, because I'm - I'm a Catholic. I'm informed by my faith, and he is an inspirational leader of my church. But I don't question people's Christianity. I think that's a relationship they have with their - with their lord and savior and themselves.So I just don't think it's appropriate to question Donald Trump's faith. He knows what his faith is. And he has a - if he has a relationship with the lord, fantastic. If he doesn' it's none of my business.Yeah.I was at a gun manufacturer here in Columbia, South Carolina, and I - I received that gun as a gift. And it was - first of all, I had a phenomenal town hall meeting with workers that were concerned about economic security and national security. They sell a lot of what they make to the - to the military, and they - they've seen the gutting of the military, in terms of the sequester.They're concerned about that. They're concerned about their jobs. They're concerned about Obamacare. We had a lively discussion, and I wanted to pay tribute to them by showing off the gun they gave me.And also wanted to show that I believe the Second Amendment is as important a part of the Bill of Rights as any of the other amendments to the Bill of Rights, in that we ought to be protective of it.And a lot - a lot's riding with Antonin Scalia's passing. Now we're gonna have a conversation this election about - about a lot of important things, including the Second Amendment. And as governor of the state of Florida, I was - I was A-plus rated for eight years in a row. And I believe that we should protect the rights of law-abiding citizens and focus our efforts on putting bad people away that use guns illegally, for a long while.That's what we did in Florida.We got 1.5 million concealed weapon permit holders in Florida which is double the next state. But we've also seen double digit reductions in gun violence because if you commit a crime with a gun in Florida you're going to prison. There's a minimum mandatory sentence and I think that's the proper approach. So I wanted to ...Yes, I would. He doesn't have the authority to do that. This is the problem with our president. He's given up working with Congress and I think he's trampling on th constitution each and every time he does this. The intention - look, I don't - I don't necessarily agree with what he did and it's a response to the San Bernardino killings.That was an act of terror. That was not random gun violence but the better way to do that - for example on the mental health element of this. Which I think there's a convergence of interests between left and right on that. Why not go to Congress and see if you could work with conservatives in the Congress to make sure that people that are mentally deranged don't have access to guns?There's ways to do this but trampling over the constitution, using authority you don't have. We're at the law school here. I think - I hope at least the law school students would appreciate the fact that - that the president - when the president doesn't have authority he should not go beyond what the constitution allows him to do.I'm marking her down as neutral.Well, I do have momentum if you look at the polls and you look at the crowd sizes of our town hall meetings. And the enthusiasm that exists. I'm proud that Lindse Graham is supporting me. Look, he could have supported two of his colleagues - Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio.He's worked with them in the United States Senate. He chose me because he believes that I would be ready to serve on day one as commander in chief and leader of the fre world. And that's a pretty ringing endorsement for a guy who's probably the leading national security expert in the United States Senate.Wow. Now I'm going to get emotional. He's the greatest man alive. I - look, Columba - my wife and I have been married 42 years and - next week. I wasn't pausing for that. Thank you for the round of applause. I was pausing because I was trying to not get emotional here about my dad. About - when I was 25 I think I decided - normally when you're with - at least I'm a hard charging, striving person. I always want to - people like to strive to be like your parents. It's kind of a natural thing to do.I realized pretty quickly in my life if I could be half the man my dad was that that would be a pretty good goal. If I tried to strive to be as good as him it would be impossible. I'd be on a couch getting therapy all the time. My dad is just - put aside the fact that he was the first - the youngest navy pilot in World War II, has served this country in so many different ways including being president.He's just a fine man - person of integrity, of honesty, of courage - all the virtues that you would want to have to be inspired by. This guy is the real deal and so half the man of George Bush means you could live a life of purpose and meaning as far as I'm concerned.Yeah ...No pressure on me.Right ...Great question. Phenomenal question and my life journey as it relates to my faith journey was transformed in 1988 not in any particular way. I didn't - I wasn't down. I was just overwhelmed. I was living the tyranny of the present. You know how that feels. Just - when you're just overwhelmed. I had work, I had family. We just haall sorts of activities.My dad was running for president, and I was working and trying to help him. And I just was overwhelmed, and it forced me to pause and to reflect about the important things of life.And I started reading the Bible and I - and I accepted Jesus as my savior at that time. And that was an important element of my life.The second part of my faith journey that was important was when - after the 1994 election and I lost, I decided I wanted to join the faith of my wife. We had gone to - we go to mass, we were going to mass, except I wasn't a Catholic. That's kind of cheating in case you were thinking.So I went to the RCA class. About halfway through - and it was a wonderful experience. I was with real people - this was after an election defeat which was not fun - I learned a lot from the defeat. It made me a much better person. But I - my Catholic journey started then. And on Easter Sabbath of 1997, I became a Catholic, and it inform a lot of how I think about life.I believe that life is a gift from God, that it's divinely inspired and that we're all here for a purpose in life. And if you believe like that, then a lot of the policy and a lot of th thinking that goes with that in the public arena falls quite naturally. It means that you protect life from beginning to end. It means that you respect people that may have disabilities as important as anybody else. If means that you respect everybody and you treat them with dignity and respect.My faith is an important part of my life. And as - and in public life, I don't think you put your faith in a lockbox, you know, and say, OK, I'll do this kind of at home and I'll do it when I go to the church but I can't do it openly in the public square.I think we're now confronted with a real challenge in our country which is,can we find accommodation in this great country with great diversity - can we find the ability to respect people that may not agree with us on this particular issue, but also allow religious conscience to be front and center in our lives.The minute we start closing off people acting on their faith in the public square, we're not being American in my mind. This is the first freedom in our country, and now thi is under conversation and maybe under attack depending on - again, we're back to the question of replacement of Antonin Scalia, both in the 2nd Amendment and religiou freedom. These are big issues and I think they should be discussed in the context of the campaign.Wow, two in a row.Yeah.Heather, I don't - I don't know who I would pick. I'll tell you the kind of person I would pick. It would be someone who did not aspire to legislate from the bench. I would be someone with a deep intellectual acumen and persuasive skills because this is a collaborative body. You have to persuade people towards your view, towards you opinion to get to a majority opinion. And it would be someone who has a consistent judicial record.I think given the context in which we're operating today, the old notion, the conventional wisdom of picking someone who doesn't have a record because it's easier to get that persons passed, that needs to be thrown out the door because we're living in such a divided society right now, you can assure there's going to be a fight no matter who you pick. And having someone with a consistent judicial record I think is important so as to avoid the case like David Souter would be an example.My dad picked him. I'm sure he had the first two. He probably had persuasive skills. He certainly was of - had a, you know, high intellectual acumen I'm sure. But he wandered away from what people thought he was going to be, how he viewed the law, pretty quickly. And he did not have a federal court record from which to operate.So I would pick someone that was in all likelihood to be in the judiciary already with a proven record. And I would fight. This is - this is hugely important. And I think, frankly, this is a - this is an important subject for this election.So would I - would I nominate someone? I probably would. Because I - as I said in the debate last Saturday, I'm an Article II guy. I think the presidency should be - we should be respectful of the Constitution, but whatever powers are afforded the presidency, the president ought to use them. They're there for a purpose.But under - in this current environment, where you have such a divisive kind of environment in Washington, it is unlikely that the Senate would provide the necessary consent for that nomination. And I think it probably is better to have a - make this part of the election.I'm willing to defend my views about the - you know, the Constitution and how judges should be appointed. The Democratic nominee should probably want to do the same thing.And then you would have the people deciding, in essence, which president would be the ones that would be nominating not just the replacement for Justice Scalia, this incredible giant - legal giant, this person who I think was the greatest lover of liberty and believed in the limitations of government, but whoever next - whoever the next people are as well.This should be an important conversation we have. Why not allow it to be part of the election? So I'm - I'm - I'm excited about the prospects of this being an - a - an important election issue. And I hope, with civility and - and a good, solid conversation, we can heighten the awareness of the importance of who - who we select for the next three or four justices.Thanks, Heather.Hey, Brian.I'm doing well. Appreciate your service, by the way.Appreciate your service again.We have ground troops already in Iraq, but they're not embedded with the Iraqi military. This is a tragedy of our own doing. When we pulled back, instead of keeping a small force, which was the initial objective, to create stability - a fragile and stable Iraq existed the day that Barack Obama came into office.When he did not renew the - the agreement with the Iraqi government to allow for troops to stay there, that void was filled by sectarianism that once again kind of unravele Iraq. And it created ISIS.Al Qaida in - in Iraq was devastated. Was gone. But the recreation of a caliphate the size of Indiana between Syria and Iraq is because we pulled back and the Iraqis did no have a - a sustainable kind of national government.So what should we do? I think we should embed our existing troops - 3,500 or more now. I don't know the exact number. It seems like it's incrementally going up without lot of big fanfare.But I think we ought to embed those troops inside the Iraqi military to give them the training and the backbone necessary for that fighting force to be re-established.I think we need to re-establish the partnership with the Sunni tribal leaders that led to the heroic efforts of the U.S. Armed Forces and the Sunni - Sunni forces to create the surge that brought about this fragile, but stable Iraq.And the blood of American soldiers was - was - was lost because of this, and was squandered by this administration's lack of continuation of the efforts.I think we need to arm the Kurds directly with more sophisticated weapons. I think we need to get the lawyers off the backs of the warfighters. Now we have approvals required for the sorties that go out from the bases, and - and at least half of the sorties don't drop their ordnances, because they can't get the approval.We need air controllers forward leaning to make sure that - that we can identify and target the terrorists in a - in a very targeted way. All of this together will bring about th defeat of ISIS.But it can't just be done in Iraq. It has to be done in Syria as well. And this is where it gets more dicey, if you will, because in the case of Syria, we've allowed Russia to establish a military presence back in the Middle East for the first time in 40 years.We've done this in a way that is devastating. We've negotiated with the Iranians, legitimized the regime. And what do they do, instead of quietly allowing for dissent inside their country? They execute two or three people a day, and they're using this money to double down on their efforts to support the - the Iraqi - the Shia militia and Hezbolla in - in Syria.So this problem has been made worse, but that does not mean that we don't have a - a duty to be able to protect ourselves by being on the offensive there, which means we need to create safe zones.You want to solve the refugee problem? Create safe zones inside of Syria instead of allowing millions to be uprooted and creating a breeding ground for Islamic terrorism i we don't watch it, by not dealing with the problem in Syria.BUSH: We need a no-fly zone. And that will be in conflict with the Russians, but my personal belief is the Russians should be more worried about the United States Air Force capabilities than us being worried about them.And then finally it will take more than 50 special operators to embed those troops inside of a Sunni-led force that is organized to destroy ISIS, and be ultimately the political force that will bring about regime change. Assad has to go as well.This won't happen overnight. This will be a complicated challenge. But for us, who? In effect, when we pull back and we lead from behind and we talk about red lines, we create chaos. That's what we see. We see a president that is not exerting United States leadership. And he calls us an occupying force or calls us the world policeman, or argues that anybody that is against his nuanced view is somehow in cahoots with the death to America crowd.I don't think that's the proper way to lead. I think American leadership is necessary to be clear and overt and strong. That's how you draw the rest of the Arab world to this. That's how you draw Europe to create a fighting force that can win.Yes?Right.Well, they negotiated an agreement that expired in 2012. And the intent - the clear intent was to renegotiate that and extend it. And President Obama now says, well it was impossible because there were liability issues with the, you know, with the - they couldn't get it past the legislature.And he said - he could have gotten it if he - if he had gotten the assurance from the president. What he couldn't get was the assurance from the legislature. It was a easy out for him.Yeah.Hey, Will.Two separate distinct questions, both of which are really important, Will. The idea that recreational drug - the terminology is probably a little misleading if you thin about it, because of the potency of - of this generation of marijuana. It has major impacts - neurological impacts. There are scores of studies that suggest this.And yet it's laughed off because culturally that's an obsolete notion. Well, it isn't. My wife was on the board of CASA, the leading advocate of research and development dealing with addiction and dealing with drug use and alcohol use in this country. And you - just go on their website and see the devastating nature of, to your point, of the abuse of marijuana and the devastating impacts that has on productivity; the impacts it has on brain damage.This is not some idle kind of conversation. This is a serious problem. Addiction in general is a huge problem for our country. If you believe like I - like I said, informed by my faith that we all are here for a purpose, and if we could imagine everybody reaching their full potential, that we'd have a lot less government. We would have a much, much more compassionate and loving society; a much more prosperous society.That - that I can see, looking over the horizon. Well, with addiction, that makes it harder. Alcohol and drug abuse is a serious problem that crosses all ethnic lines, income lines. Colum and I have struggled with, as parents of a daughter who - who is now 10 years drug-free. But she got into the criminal justice system because of her addictions There are a lot of people that have mental health challenges combined with addiction.So here's what I think we should do. My first impulse on all of these issues is a bottom-up approach, rather than a top-down approach, where Washington should be the partner to help solve these problems. But we should recognize that we should change - I'll give you three things that we ought to do.We ought to have a - we ought to have a focus on the brain. Talking about moon shots - here's a moon shot for you. Why don't we discover the brain, its complexities?You think about the challenges - neurological challenges that play out in our society - drug addiction, alcohol addiction, Alzheimer's, autism - all of these things relate to th brain and this extraordinary capability we have to discover drugs to cure disease. We have not been as advanced, as it relates to the brain. And I think that's one place the federal government can play an important role.Secondly, we need to look at our criminal justice system - 50 percent of all prisoners in our federal system are there because of drug use, in a - in a variety of different way - 50 percent. That's much higher than the - than states, generally.But I think we ought to review this. Maybe we should focus a little bit more on treatment and a little less on - on punishment. You go talk to the sheriffs wherever you live, and the police chiefs - whoever runs the - the jails, and you'll find that a lot of people that are addicted to drugs are being housed in our jails, rather than getting treatment.It costs a lot more to keep someone in jail than it does to give them treatment along the way. In Florida, we created a huge strategy to deal with this, and we created drug courts all across the state, to give people a second chance.The adjudication was withheld for the crime that might - might have gone along with their addiction, but in return, you had to get straight. You had to become drug free, an you had to be in recovery. That is a far better approach in our society, I think, than just putting people away without giving them the kind of treatment that - that they need.My wife was the madrina of the prevention movement in Florida. And we saw dramatic reductions, particularly among teenagers, because we also focused on prevention. Greater awareness, greater education was important, particularly for young people.And we did one final thing that I think government ought to do a lot more of, which is a good, solid business practice - we benchmarked it. We actually measured where w were. And when things were going well, we continued on the strategy that we had. And when it wasn't working, we adjusted our strategy. We made this a serious effort, an we were successful. And I think the president could play a significant role in making sure that communities and states did the exact same thing. I appreciate the question.Your name's Daniel, I'm sorry?How you doing, Daniel? 
Fantastic.Yeah.Well, this is - Sweetie, this is going to be your anniversary present.So I'm - we're - we'll have 42 years of marriage next week, on February 23rd, and it's been a - it's been a joyous ride, as far as I'm concerned.I met my wife in Leon Guanajuato, Mexico, when I was 17 years old, on a Sunday afternoon, about 5 o'clock. I can remember - I can remember exactly where I was on the town square. And I remember exactly what she looked like, to this day, 45 years ago, and I fell madly in love - head over heels, lightning bolt in love.I lost - I was skinnier back then. I lost - I lost, like, 20 pounds. I think I probably weighed, like, 175 after two weeks of - of hanging out with Columba. And she was the most beautiful girl I ever met in my life, and I decided I was going to marry her right then and now. I mean - she said I was too tall. Who would have thought that?But we ended up - finally, I convinced her that this was the right thing to do, and we got married. She was 20 and I was 21, and we - we've been on our life journey ever since. She is my inspiration.I tell people my life can be divided in a lot of ways, but the most important way, perhaps, is A.C. and B.C. - you know, Before Columba and After Columba. And the After Columba part of my life has been a lot better. I'm a lot better person because of it as well.Love you, dear.Yeah. Yeah.No, I - I'm fluent. I'm - I'm - I'm bilingual.We can do it - si quieres hacer esta entrevista en Espanol, los hemos.Yeah, it's an - it's an advantage in life to able to have - you know, a - we have a bicultural relationship, and - and it brings a diversity and a joy to - and a - it just - it adds lot of vitality to my life.And so, yeah, I speak Spanish.Yeah.Well first of all, we need to create a culture of savings rather than a culture of debt, not just for the government, but for all of us. If you think about it - and you kno this because you're in this business - 60 percent of Americans can't make a - 63 percent of Americans can't make a $500 car payment. They don't have the cash to do that.And 60 percent of Americans don't have more than $1,000 of cash available to deal with whatever - you know, whatever comes their way.A lot of people are living paycheck to paycheck and they're struggling. They're struggling. In any kind of hardship, there's no security, there's no - there's no safety net for them, and it creates real hardship. So whatever we do, we also need to be promoting and providing incentives for savings.My little business - my son Jeb is here, we had a business of four people, and I decided we were going to have a 401(k). It costs $1,000 to open up the 401(k). A four-perso business, that's a cost that is really - you know, I probably shouldn't have done it if it was just simply based on a sound business decision.But we should allow businesses to pool their money, to pool their employees to create 401(k) opportunities over a broader scale, like large businesses have the opportunity to do. We should allow businesses to, instead of having a 401(k) if they don't want to do that, to get a tax-free deduction to invest in their employees' IRA, which is another way of doing this.I think Social Security beneficiaries, once they reach retirement age and they're continuing to work, should not have to pay the employee portion of the payroll tax. It's thei money, they've already made the contributions into the Social Security system, why not allow them to keep the 6-plus percent going directly to their pockets. It's a form of retirement savings, it just stays in their pocket instead of getting - going through the government process. There's a lot of ways that we should promote private savings is my point.As it relates to fixing the debt from government, there are three things that we have to do - I'd say four. One, grow the economy at 4 percent, not 2 percent. That 2 percent incremental growth, if you just do the compounding out, given the scale of our economy, you would create a Germany of additional economic activity in the 10th year if w created a high growth strategy. And a Germany of economic activity is a heck of a lot of revenue that would be coming into the federal government.So growing at a faster rate, which means tax reform, regulatory reform, embracing the energy revolution, dealing with the things that are now impeding our ability to inves in our own country - and I have specific plans. If you're interested, jeb2016.com. If you want to have a wonk-a-thon, a policy wonk-a-thon, every one of the detailed plans we laid out are there.Secondly, we need career civil service reforms. There shouldn't be lifetime guarantees for government workers. Government workers in Washington get paid 40 percent more than their equivalent workers in the private sector. Why? They're supposed to be the servants, not the masters. But yet, we've allowed this to happen because they hav these protections that make it harder to adjust to reform, to challenge.People - we're stuck - we're stuck in a 20th century world where - the 20th century's bureaucracy in a 21st century world. So I did that as governor of the state of Florida, w have to do it in Washington.Third, we need entitlement reform, as you said, and we need to reform our Social Security system. I would repeal Obamacare and replace it with a consumer-directed mode that would, in lieu of all of the subsidies and taxes and all the mandates, we would shift all this away from Washington, create state exchanges that are not coercive and hav catastrophic coverage to be the norm, low-premium, catastrophic coverage, with pre-existing conditions being the one standard that would be kept from Obamacare and allowing your young adults, children, to be able to stay on your plan should you so desire and give people that aren't receiving insurance through their company a $3,100 tax credit, a refundable tax credit to allow them to purchase on exchanges, allow them to cross lines, allow them to pick the best plan for themselves and their families.This would be a far less costly way and would deal with these out-year costs of Obamacare that are going to be devastating. Similarly, Medicare needs to have reforms and Social Security. And I would - I would create - I would push Medicaid back to the states.I know - if I was governor today of Florida, I could take the Medicaid dollars that the state right now has and create a Medicaid - 21st century Medicaid program for people of low income that would cost less and would have significantly better outcomes. As long as Washington didn't impose the rules on it, you could too. That's the beauty of this is common sense applied without all the rules around it we could recast a lot of these programs.So shifting power away from Washington is the other way to deal with the deficit. You do those four things: high growth, reasonable (ph) service reform, entitlement refor and shifting how we educate, transportation, every possible thing back to the states. I want to be the second - the tenth amendment president because the government inWashington was not designed to do all the things that it's doing now.That's how you get back to moving towards a balanced budget. We can do it. I believe in my heart that we can.Thank you ...We're finished?I was just warming up.I listen to country music mostly. Zach Brown (ph). The - Tim Miller (ph) is my communications director thinks it's crazy but the song I come out to for all our tow hall meetings I actually like. So I listen to the same songs that we play on our - in our meetings because I actually like the song. Florida, Georgia band I like ...How do I relax?Yeah. That's really weird. 
I still haven't quite - no. No. I'm waiting for the primitive era to be finished before we - no. He's actually pretty good at it. He told some poor - some art teacher. He called him up - call her up out of the blue and said, "this is George Bush. I want to learn how to paint. There's a Rembrant inside of me and you're job is to bring the Rembrant out."Talk about pressure but he's gotten pretty good at it. I don't - I don't warrant a picture yet. 
What do I like to do?To relax? I like to do Sunday fun day with my two precious granddaughters that live in Miami with Jeb junior and Sandra (ph). I make guacamole and Jeb cooks on the grill. I like hanging out with my granddaughters and grandsons when I get a chance. I like playing speed golf and I like reading. I love reading. I learned that from mymomma ...I just finished the John Meacham book on my dad and it was interesting. I learned more about my dad than I thought I would. I thought I actually knew everything and it wasn't even close. He wrote a diary over a long period of his life and Meacham had approval to read the diary. And mom was the editor.He had to get approval to put stuff in the book and it was pretty extraordinary. He's a great writer and it's a really good book. 
I learned of how tough it was to loose in 1992. He didn't share that. He's part of the generation that you don't show your emotions. You grind through, you stiff uppe lip or whatever it is. You don't - we're now - people in my generation are all like - they're kind of more like Bill Clinton.It's all - you have to emote and it's kind of more - a little bit more about - about the person rather than my dad's generation was much more selfless I think. And less about them and more about helping others. So he didn't ever express any kind of deep disappointment but it was there. It was real and shouldn't be - I shouldn't have been surprised by that. He lost an election. He felt like he let people down. He wanted to serve. He was a great president and I think the country would have been better off had h won but he also eventually accepted it and moved on and had a great post-presidency.Yeah ...
 No ...That's even stranger than me.I - you'll know this. You'll appreciate this because introverts set goals ... 
And they grind and they just like - they just go at it ... 
Which is a pretty good thing to be when you're running for president when you've been written off over and over and over again. And you're not deterred by that. I fact, that just makes me more motivated, more energized. So I've overcome my introversion which makes me I think better - better than an extrovert.Yeah.Yeah. I just - I think I connect better with people because I learned how to do it. It wasn't something that came naturally. It's not about me and the greatest jobs that have are town hall meetings where I'm learning. Introverts like to learn, too.They don't like to talk about everything, they like to listen. And my - in my experience listening allows you to learn and then you have a chance to lead. Rather than being big blow hard and just talking all the time. What are you going to learn when you're talking? Nothing.Thank you, guys. Thank you.I go out this way?