Well, we've got to to step up the pressure. And by the way, I've gotta say, after being here, every one of my 100 town hall meetings in New Hampshire were a lot more fun than what I saw here today, were so much more positive.Look, in terms of North Korea, Martha, we have to make sure that we intercept both the ships and their aircraft, because what they're trying to do is to proliferate this very dangerous material, along with the -- with the technology, the instruments that can be used for mass destruction.
That's what I worry about the most, frankly, is non-state actors, people who don't have a uniform, people don't have a country, who can spread this, who are not subject to the -- to the mutual assured defense. In other words, you strike us, we strike you.Some of these radicals, they don't care about that. That's what I worry about, for my children, and for their children, going forward. So, we have to be very tough.And we should tell the Chinese, look, if you're not going to do this ballistic missile defense to the Koreans, ballistic missile defense to Japan -- and by the way, we should impose the same kind of sanctions on North Korea that we imposed on Iran, because they're able to shift money. They're able to send money and receive money.
We've gotta to be very tough on this. And frankly, I think we could have -- I think we could have let the Japanese know that if you want to take action on that -- on that missile that's rising, you want to take action -- you will have our support, if that's what you think is the best thing to do. We cannot continue to be weak in the face of the North Koreans, or, frankly, in the entire rest of the world.
Well, you know, David, I -- I've just spent a lot of time here in this state, as I mentioned earlier, and we have to have practical solutions, just like we were just talking about a few minutes ago on North Korea. Look, the situation is, we need to finish the border. It has to be completed. Just like we lock our doors at night, the country has to be able to lock its doors. And we can have a guest worker program, where people can come in and out in an orderly way.And then for the 11.5 million that are here, if they have not committed a crime since they've been here, I believe they ought to pay some back taxes, pay a fine, never get on the path to citizenship, but get legalization. It is not -- I couldn't even imagine how we would even begin to think about taking a mom or a dad out of a house when they have not committed a crime since they've been here, leaving their children in the house. I mean, that is not, in my opinion, the kind of values that we believe in.And secondly, I think at the end of the day, that Americans would support a plan like this. I think Congress would pass a plan to finish the border, guest worker, pay a fine, a path to legalization, and not citizenship. And we've got to get this done. And I will tell you this, within the first 100 days that I am president, I will put that proposal to the Congress. And I will tell you, as a former Congressman, and an executive, in Ohio, I can promise you that I believe you'll get the votes to pass that, and we can move on with that issue and protect our border. That's what I think.Good evening.
Well, first of all, look. As the New York Times said, he's certainly not a moderate, but he can bring people together to solve problems. The fact of the matter is I've cut taxes more than anybody in the country this year. I have balanced budgets, the federal budget, the state of Ohio budget, we're running a $2 billion dollar surplus, we're up 400,000 jobs, and in Washington we were able to have significant job growth whenever we balanced the budget of which I was the architect.But, here's the beauty of it, it's not just balancing a budget, it's about jobs. You know, when I was kid growing up in a neighborhood where Dad went home at night and said, "I lost my job today", it just killed the family.It just was a devastating effect. We have to have economic growth, but once we have economic growth I believe we have to reach out to people who live in the shadows. I believe we need to help the mentally ill, the drug addicted, the working poor. We need to help the developmentally disabled to rise, and we need to help our friends in the minority community develop entrepreneurship. In other words, in American, conservatism should mean not only that some rise with conservative principles, but everybody has a chance to rise regardless of who they are so they can live their God given purpose. That's what conservatism should be.David?
Let -- but let me -- let me just tell you. First of all, we have the lowest number of state employees in 30 years.Secondly, we have grown government at the rate of inflation. And I went from an $8 billion hole to a $2 billion surplus. And we've grown jobs by 400,000 -- that's one of the fastest growing states in the country. Our pensions are secure and our credit is rock solid.Now, I've learned that, what makes things work, what gets the economy going, not just in Ohio, but in Washington - - and it's three things. Common sense regulations, which we have, lower taxes, which we have, the lowest taxes, tax cuts in the country. And thirdly, a fiscal plan to balance the budget.
When you go from $8 billion in the hole to $2 billion in the black, when you cut taxes by $5 billion and you grow over 400,000 jobs, that is a record that I can take to Washington, using the same formula that I used in Washington when I was part of the effort to balance the budget to give us a surplus and to create jobs.
That's what I did and I'll do it again in the first 100 days.
Well, right now the deals -- there's no leadership. I mean, a lot of the things that we're talking about here tonight, on the border, and so many of the things. What we should be doing on foreign policy, you know what the problem is, Mary Katharine? There's not a leader that gets somebody to rise.You have to have a leader that can inspire, and actually some of what Donald was saying is true. Look, do you know how hard it was to get the balance the federal budget balanced? You have to plead with people. To do what we've done in Ohio, you have to plead with people, then you go back down to Washington and do the same thing.See, we have to remind people we're Americans before we're Republicans and Democrats, and when we wait, and when we delay what we end up doing, Mary Katharine, is we make the United States weaker. In fact, it's a foreign policy issue because people look at America not solving problems and they say what are they doing over there? The point is you have to work with people.
Mary Katherine, let me just say this to you.
You must have an agenda that you are ready to move on in the first 100 days. Jeb is right. If you delay and you wait, the Washington operators will take you down. I can tell you this, in the first 100 days, I will have legislation to freeze federal regulations, have them reviewed by the vice president, reduce state taxes on individuals, reduce taxes on corporations, have a fiscal plan to balance the budget, get the border protected and begin to fix Social Security in the first 100 days.So, anybody who is here tonight, if I get elected president, head out tomorrow and buy a seat belt, because there's going to be so much happening in the first 100 days, it's going to make your head spin. We're going to move America forward. I promise you. We're going to move us forward.
Jeb mentioned me. Time for me to go again.
He says he didn't mention me the second time. I thought I heard it, Jeb. No. I'm just kidding. Thank you all very much for listening and being patient with all of us tonight. Thank you.
I wanted -- I wanted to say, look, this -- there can be a win-win here. I have formed a collaborative between police and community leaders because people have to respect law enforcement. A family doesn't want dad or mom going home in a box. And for our community leaders, many of them think the system not only works -- not only doesn't work for them, but it works against them.And I created a big collaborative in Ohio made up of law enforcement, community leaders, the head of my public safety and a former Democrat, liberal Senate senator Nina Turner, run it. They got together, they made recommendations on recruiting, on hiring, on the use of deadly force and what we're about to do is to bring community and police together so we can have a win-win.We need more win-wins in America and we don't have to pick one over another divide. We love the police, but we've got to be responsible to the people in the community. We have to do all of that.Josh?
Josh, I mean, clearly, when a veteran comes home, they should get health care anywhere they want to go. In our state, which is what we should do in the country, you know, if they drive a truck from Kabul to Kandahar in Afghanistan, we say, you can drive a truck from Columbus to Cleveland, and you don't have to go get a license.
We're going to hand you one.And if you've got expertise in the military, we're going to give you college credit or community college credit for the things that you did for our country. And in addition to that, I'll tell you, one of the biggest things I think has to be done -- and I would do it as president -- the Pentagon has got to work with the returning soldier, sailor, along with the family, and we -- they're the most valuable employees in the country. I call them golden employees.Everybody wants to hire a veteran. But there is a disconnect between the job openings and the veteran when the veteran comes back. The veteran is a leader. The veteran is strong. The veteran is drug free. There should be no unemployment among veterans.And if the Pentagon will work with the veterans' services agencies all across this country, Josh, we can get people jobs and we can get them jobs quickly, get them their health care get them their college education. Let's lift them. They're the greatest people defending the United States of America and we need to take care of them, and we will. We will.Carolina's going to win that one. I hate to say it. But they're going to win that one.
Well, folks, I've done now over 100 town hall meetings and I've loved every second of it. It has been the greatest thing in the world. And I want you to know that you've changed me, because I've listened to your stories and I've had your hugs and I've seen your tears, and I've seen you walk away and say, I now have hope.You know, I've had a conservative message, but a positive message -- not just a conservative message, but a positive message about how we can bring people together, how we can restore America's strength, lift everyone. New Hampshire, please give me a chance to carry this message forward to the United States of America. And then, I will come back. Thank you, loved it. And God bless you.Well, first of all, I had a national reporter say, you know, there's three lanes. There's the establishment lane, the anti- establishment lane, and then there's the Kasich lane.
And the reason is, is that I've been a reformer all of my career, fighting to reform welfare, fighting to reform the Pentagon, also being in a position to balance the budget, because that is very, very hard to do.And then in Ohio, of course, I had to bring about big reform, again, because we were so far in the hole and now we just found out we are up over 400,000 jobs since I took over as governor.You know, the situation is this. We cannot fix things in this country -- the Social Security, the border, balancing the budget, getting wages to grow faster -- unless we lead as conservatives, but we also invite people in from the other party. We have to come together as a country. And we have to stop all the divisions.And, you know, that's been my message in New Hampshire. And having been in New Hampshire and here in Iowa, but in New Hampshire, I just received the support of seven out of eight of the newspapers in that state because they see positive, they see unity, they see coming together, and they see a record of change and a record of accomplishment.And it isn't because I'm all that great. It's because I've been assembling a team of people who want to be involved in something that's a little bigger than themselves. I'll keep -- I'll keep heading in that direction, believe me.Chris there was a question about foreign policy, by the way, and experience. And I -- I thought, if I didn't jump in, I might not be able to tell everybody this. I think they'd want to hear it.I've always listened to you, Megyn. Go ahead.
Yes -- thank you.Well, look the Joint Terrorism Task Force needs resources and tools. And those are made up of the FBI, state and local law enforcement. And Megyn, it's best not to talk anymore about back doors and encryption, it will get solved, but it needs to be solved in the situation of the White House with the technology folks. But I just have to tell you that it's best with some of these things not be said. Now I want to go back something. See, I was there when Reagan rebuilt the military. I was there in '89 when the wall came tumbling down because we were strong.And I was there when we went into the Gulf War. We didn't win that war just from the air, we won that war by assembling a group of Arab leaders who stood in the Rose Garden and stood with America. We want to destroy ISIS, it has to be in the air and on the ground. It has to be with our friends in the Arab world and our friends in Europe, the coalition that we had when we went to the first Gulf War.And then when we win that, and we will win that against ISIS as it settles down, and we should leave. Because we shouldn't be policemen of the world. But what we need to do is turn it over to the regional powers to be able to handle that.But we have a unique time in America to connect with people all around the world that understand that there's an existential threat against all of them, the Arabs, the Jordanians, the Saudis, the Egyptians, our friends in Europe, including the Turks. So we have a unique opportunity to bring everybody together.I saw Reagan do it, I've seen other presidents do it. And frankly, if you want to be commander in chief, you have to have the experience. At the same time we're doing all that, the Pentagon must be reformed so we get what we need for our men and women in uniform. All of that together, we're going to be just fine and America is going to continue to lead the world.
Well, you've got to be on top of it right away. And, you know, I don't know all the details of what Rick Snyder has done. I know there have been people who have been fired; people who are being held accountable. But the fact is, every single engine of government has to move when you see a crisis like that.And I've had many situations in the state of Ohio where we've had to move, whether it's storms, whether it was a horrible school shooting. There are many crises that come -- a water crisis in Toledo. You've got to be on top of it. You've got to go the extra mile. You've got to work with local communities and you've got to work with the federal government.Because you realize that people depending on you. And so, you go the extra mile. But people have to be alert. They have to be alert to problems. And when you see a problem, you must act quickly to get on top of it. And people at home are saying they've got a problem, listen to them. Because most of the time, they're absolutely correct.So the fact is that we work for the people. The people don't work for us. And we have to have an attitude when we're in government of serving-hood. That's what really matters. We serve you. You don't serve us. We listen to you and -- and then we act.No. You know, Chris, here's what happened with Medicaid in my state. We took the growth of Medicaid from over 10 percent in my second budget to 2.5 percent, without cutting off one person or cutting one benefit, because we -- we innovated the government.And now mom and dad can stay in their own home, rather than being forced into a nursing home. And then we decided we could bring $14 billion of our money -- I mean, Washington doesn't have any money. It was our money, and we brought them back to tend to the mentally ill. Because I don't think they ought to live in prison or live under a bridge; to treat the drug-addicted so they're not in an in-and-out-of- the-door policy out of the prisons; and to help the working poor so they don't live in emergency rooms.How has it worked? Well, we have treated the drug-addicted in our prisons and we released them in to the community, and our recidivism rate is less than 20 percent. That's basically bordering on a miracle because of our great prison director. The mentally ill? They've been stepped on for too long in this society, and we are beginning to treat them.In terms of my faith, look, all I say is that when I study scripture, I know that people who live in the shadows need to have a chance. But I'm not deciding that anybody's got to make these decisions the way that I do, on the basis of what I do. But what -- I will tell you this. The time has come to stop ignoring the mentally ill in this country and begin to treat them and get them on their feet, along with, of course, with treating the drug-addicted.Because we don't want them in and out -- we don't want them in and out of the prisons. Give people a chance. We talked about criminal justice reform. We've enacted it in our state. Look, the conservative message is economic growth and along with economic growth goes opportunity for everybody in America. Everybody ought to have a chance to be able to rise to their God-given purpose.And that is what we have done in Ohio. We're running surpluses. We're up 400,000 jobs. And guess what? The formula is working. I'd suggest people take a look at it.Thank you.
Look, we don't know what's going to happen in ten months. And if I were president of the United States right now, I'd be lining up our allies to say that, if one crossed T or one dotted I does not occur, they are -- violate the agreement, we slap back on sanctions.We can slap on sanctions alone, on day one, but it's not gonna be anywhere near as effective. But the president needs to be laying the groundwork right now for the ability to slap those sanctions back on worldwide.And I'll tell you what I'm worried about -- I'm worried about money. You read about all the companies now that are doing business -- about to do business in Iran, and if we don't get this settled now, with other countries in the world, about sanctions, then Iran could violate that agreement, and we're the only ones putting the sanctions on.We need to move aggressively now. But I would say this to you, Bret. Number one, if they violate it, we need to move against them. And number two, if we find out they're developing a nuclear weapon and we know how to get to it, we're gonna go take it out. That is what we have to do. We cannot let things get farther down the road, like we did with North Korea.That's right. Yes.
I know, Bret.But Bret, here's the problem. You take a look at the -- at Belgium. I talked to a diplomat from Belgium. I said, "how's it going?" He said, "we have the military in the streets right now. We never dreamt we'd ever see it."See, I think there is an opportunity to bring the world together. The Turks are being threatened. We know about the French. We know about the Belgians. We know about the Brits. Everybody is under fire and under attack, and we have to stand together as an alliance.So actually, the opportunity is there, because of the threat to all of these countries, to bring all of us together and say there is something more important than money. It is the future of the world and the future of our children and grandchildren. That's the kind of leadership this country needs. It has not been in effect during the administration of Barack Obama.And that's only the beginning of the failures that they have committed, not only in the Middle East, but all over the world, including Russia and China.You know, one of our biggest national security issues is the world looks at us some time, and we look at each other and say, why can't we solve problems? Well, I've got news for you, we can. We can in fact create jobs and provide job security. We can create a situation where wages begin to rise. We can create a situation for our children to be able to get a decent job to pay down their college debt. We can re-assume our role in the world.But all of this has to come together when we have a positive attitude, an optimistic approach, an ability for us to set the tune as conservatives, to invite other people in to be part of that orchestra.
You see, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I'm an optimist.
Because I've seen so many things get accomplished in my lifetime. And we can do it again together, all of us, to strengthen this country, work together. Thank you.
Look, it takes three things basically to grow jobs. And I've done it when I was in Washington when we had a balanced budget; had four years of balanced budgets; paid down a half-trillion of debt. And our economy was growing like crazy. It's the same thing that I did in Ohio. It's a simple formula: common sense regulations, which is why I think we should freeze all federal regulations for one year, except for health and safety. It requires tax cuts, because that sends a message to the job creators that things are headed the right way. And if you tax cuts -- if you cut taxes for corporations, and you cut taxes for individuals, you're going to make things move, particularly the corporate tax, which is the highest, of course, in the -- in the world.But in addition to that, we have to have fiscal discipline. We have to show that we can march to a balanced budget. And when you do that, when you're in a position of managing regulations; when you reduce taxes; and when you have fiscal discipline, you see the job creators begin to get very comfortable with the fact that they can invest.Right now, you don't have the -- you have taxes that are too high. You have regulations -- I mean, come on, they're affecting everybody here, particularly our small businesses. They are -- they're in a position where they're smothering people. And I mean, are you kidding me? We're nowhere close to a balanced budget or fiscal discipline.Those three things put together are going to give confidence to job creators and you will begin to see wages rise. You will begin to see jobs created in a robust economy. And how do I know it? Because I've done it. I did it as the chairman of the Budget Committee, working with Senator Domenici. And I've done it in the state of Ohio as the chief executive.Our wages are growing faster than the national average. We're running surpluses. And we can take that message and that formula to Washington to lift every single American to a better life.
Well, if that's the case, we're going to win every state, if Bernie Sanders is the nominee. That's not even an issue. But look and I know Bernie, and I can promise you he's not going to be president of the United States. So here's this -- the situation, I think, Maria.And this is what we have to -- I -- I've got to tell you, when wages don't rise -- and they haven't for a lot of families for a number of years -- it's very, very difficult for them.Part of the reason why it hasn't risen because sometimes we're not giving people the skills they need. Sometimes it's because the Federal Reserve kept interest rates so low that the wealthy were able to invest in -- in strong assets like the stock market when everybody else was left behind.People are upset about it. I'll tell you what else they're upset about: you're 50 or 51 years old, and some kid walks in and tells you you're out of work, and you don't know where to go and where to turn. Do we have answer for that? We do. There are ways to retrain the 50 and 51-year-olds, because they've got great value.I'll tell you what else people are concerned about. Their kids come out of college, they have high debt and they can't get a good job. We got to do a lot about the high cost of high -- higher education, but we've got to make sure we're training people for jobs that exist, that are good jobs that can pay.Let me tell you that, in this country -- in this country, people are concerned about their economic future. They're very concerned about it. And they wonder whether somebody is getting something to -- keeping them from getting it.That's not the America that I've ever known. My father used to say, "Johnny, we never -- we don't hate the rich. We just want to be the rich." And we just got to make sure that every American has the tools, in K-through-12 and in vocational education, in higher education.And we got to fight like crazy so people can think the American dream still exists, because it does, with rising wages, with full employment and with everybody in America -- and I mean everybody in America -- having an opportunity to realize the American dream of having a better life than their mother and their father.I'm president -- look, I've done it once. I've done it once in Washington, with great jobs and lower taxes. The economy was really booming.And now in Ohio, with the same formula, wages higher than the -- than the national average. A growth of 385,000 jobs.It's not that hard. Just know where you want to go, stick to your guts. Get it done, because our -- our children and grandchildren are counting on us to get it done. And, folks, we will. You count on it.
Well, let me -- let me first of all talk a little bit about my experience. I served on the Defense Committee for 18 years, and by the way, one of the members of that committee was Senator Strom Thurmond from South Carolina. Let em also tell you that after the 9/11 attacks, Secretary Rumsfeld invited me to the Pentagon with a meeting of the former secretaries of Defense. And in that meeting, I suggested we had a problem with technology, and that I wanted to take people from Silicon Valley into the Pentagon to solve our most significant problems. So I not only had the opportunity to go through the Cold War struggles in Central America, and even after 9/11 to be involved.With Saudi Arabia and oil production, first of all, it's so critical for us to be energy independent, and we're getting there because of fracking and we ought to explore because, see, energy independence gives us leverage and flexibility, and secondly, if you want to bring jobs back to the United States of America in industry, low prices make the difference.We're seeing it in my state and we'll see it in this country. And that's why we must make sure we continue to frack.In terms of Saudi Arabia, look, my biggest problem with them is they're funding radical clerics through their madrasses. That is a bad deal and an evil situation, and presidents have looked the other way. And I was going to tell you, whether I'm president or not, we better make it clear to the Saudis that we're going to support you, we're in relation with you just like we were in the first Gulf War, but you've got to knock off the funding and teaching of radical clerics who are the very people who try to destroy us and will turn around and destroy them. So look, in foreign policy -- in foreign policy, it's strength, but you've got to be cool. You've got to have a clear vision of where you want to go. And I'm going to tell you, that it -- I'm going to suggest to you here tonight, that you can't do on the job training.I've seen so much of it - a Soviet Union, the coming down of a wall, the issues that we saw around the world in Central America, the potential spread of communism, and 9/11 and Gulf War. You see what the Saudi's -- deliver them a strong message but at the end of the day we have to keep our cool because most of the time they're going right with us. And they must be part of our coalition to destroy ISIS and I believe we can get that done.Thank you.
I -- I've been for pausing on admitting the Syrian refugees. And the reasons why I've done is I don't believe we have a good process of being able to vet them. But you know, we don't want to put everybody in the same category.
And I'll go back to something that had been mentioned just a few minutes ago. If we're going to have a coalition, we're going to have to have a coalition not just of people in the western part of the world, our European allies, but we need the Saudis, we need the Egyptians, we need the Jordanians, we need the Gulf states. We need Jordan.We need all of them to be part of exactly what the first George Bush put together in the first Gulf War.It was a coalition made up of Arabs and Americans and westerners and we're going to need it again. And if we try to put everybody in the same -- call everybody the same thing, we can't do it. And that's just not acceptable.But I think a pause on Syrian refugees has been exactly right for all the governors that have called for it, and also, of course, for me as the governor of Ohio.
Neil, Neil -- can I say one thing about this. I'm a free trader. I support NAFTA. I believe in the PTT because it's important those countries in Asia are interfacing against China. And we do need China -- Donald's right about North Korea.I mean the fact is, is that they need to put the pressure on and frankly we need to intercepts ships coming out of North Korea so they don't proliferate all these dangerous materials. But what he's touching -- talking about, I think has got merit. And I'll allow putting that tariff or whatever he's saying here...For too long -- no, for too long, what happens is somebody dumps their product in our country and take our people's jobs, and then we go to an international court and it takes them like a year or two to figure out whether they were cheating us. And guess what? The worker's out of a job.So when they -- be found against that country that's selling products in here lower than the cost of what it takes to produce them, then what do we tell the worker? Oh, well, you know, it just didn't work out for you.I think we should be for free trade but I think fair trade. And when countries violate trade agreements or dump product in this country, we need -- we need to stand up against those countries that do that without making them into an enemy.And I want to just suggest to you. How do I know this? Because so many people in my family worked in steel mills, and they didn't work with a white collar, they worked in a blue collar. And the fact is those jobs are critical, they're hard working members of the middle class and they need to be paid attention to because they're Americans and they carry the load. So let's demand open trade but fair trade in this country. That's what I think we need to do.Well, I created a task force well over a year ago and the purpose was to bring law enforcement, community people, clergy and the person that I named as one of the co-chair was a lady by the name of Nina Turner, a former State Senator, a liberal Democrat. She actually ran against one of my friends and our head of public safety.And they say down as a group trying to make sure that we can begin to heal some of these problems that we see between community and police.
And they came back with 23 recommendations. One of them is a statewide use of deadly force. And it is now being put into place everyplace across the state of Ohio. Secondly, a policy on recruiting and hiring, and then more resources for -- for training.But let me also tell you, one of the issues has got to be the integration of both community and police. Community has to understand that that police officer wants to get home at night, and not -- not to lose their life. Their family is waiting for them.At the same time, law enforcement understands there are people in the community who not only think that the system doesn't work for them, but works against them.See, in Ohio, we've had some controversial decisions. But the leaders have come forward to realize that protest is fine, but violence is wrong. And it has been a remarkable situation in our state. And as president of the United States, it's all about communication, folks. It's all about getting people to listen to one another's problems.And when you do that, you will be amazed at how much progress you can make, and how much healing we can have. Because, folks, at the end of the day, the country needs healed. I've heard a lot of hot rhetoric here tonight, but I've got to tell you, as somebody that actually passed a budget; that paid down a half-a-trillion dollars of our national debt, you can't do it alone. You've got to bring people together. You've got to give people hope.And together, we can solve these problems that hurt us and heal America. And that is what's so critical for our neighborhoods, our families, our children, and our grandchildren.You know, in our country, there are a lot of people who feel as though they just don't have the power. You know, they feel like if they don't have a lobbyist, if they're not wealthy, that somehow they don't get to play.But all of my career, you know, having been raised in -- by a mailman father whose father was a coal miner, who died of black lung and was losing his eyesight; or a mother whose mother could barely speak English. You see, all of my career, I've fought about giving voice to the people that I grew up with and voice to the people that elected me.Whether it's welfare reform and getting something back for the hard-earned taxpayers; whether it's engaging in Pentagon reform and taking on the big contractors that were charging thousands of dollars for hammers and screw drivers and ripping us off; or whether it's taking on the special interests in the nursing home industry in Ohio, so that mom and dad can have the ability to stay in their own home, rather than being forced into a nursing home.
Look, that's who I stand up for. That's who's in my mind.
And if you really want to believe that you can get your voice back, I will tell you, as I have all my career, I will continue to fight for you, because you're the ones that built this country, and will carry it into the future. Thank you.
Thank you, Wolf. Just last weekend, just last week, a friend asked one of my daughters, "Do you like politics?" And my daughter said, "No, I don't. And the reason I don't like it is because there's too much fighting, too much yelling. It's so loud, I don't like it." You know, I turned to my friend and I said, "You know, she's really on to something."And when we think about our country and the big issues that we face in this country; creating jobs, making sure people can keep their jobs, the need for rising wages, whether our children when they graduate from college can find a job, protecting the homeland, destroying ISIS, rebuilding defense. These are all the things that we need to focus on but we'll never get there if we're divided. We'll never get there if republicans and democrats just fight with one another.Frankly, we are republicans and they're democrats but before all of that, we're Americans. And I believe we need to unify in so many ways to rebuild our country, to strengthen our country, to rebuild our defense, and for America to secure it's place it world; for us, for our children, and for the next generation.Thank you.
Well, first of all, Wolf, I said last February that we needed to have people on the ground, troops on the ground in a coalition similar to what we had in the first Gulf War.I remember when the Egyptian ambassador to the United States stood in the Rose Garden and pledged Arab commitment to removing Saddam Hussein from Kuwait. Before we came out here tonight, I am told that the Saudis have organized 34 countries who want to join in the battle against terrorism.First and foremost, we need to go and destroy ISIS. And we need to do this with our Arab friends and our friends in Europe.And when I see they have a climate conference over in Paris, they should have been talking about destroying ISIS because they are involved in virtually every country, you know, across this world.Now, you destroy ISIS in a coalition. You get joint intelligence with our European friends. And then here at home, there are things called the Joint Terrorism Task Force, headed by the FBI, and made up of local law enforcement, including state police.They need the tools. And the tools involve encryption where we cannot hear what they're even planning. And when we see red flags, a father, a mother, a neighbor who says we have got a problem here, then we have to give law enforcement the ability to listen so they can disrupt these terrorist attacks before they occur.We can do this, but we've got to get moving. Pay me now or pay me a lot more later. This is the direction we need to go.No, I don't think it is. And I want to go back to two other issues. One is the metadata. We know we have to hold this data for a longer period of time. And, you know, in a lot of ways, Chris is right. Look, what a president has to do is take a position. We don't want to err on the side of having less. We want to err on the side of having more. That's good for our families.In addition to that, Wolf, there is a big problem. It's called encryption. And the people in San Bernardino were communicating with people who the FBI had been watching. But because their phone was encrypted, because the intelligence officials could not see who they were talking to, it was lost.We have to solve the encryption problem. It is not easy. A president of the United States, again, has to bring people together, have a position. We need to be able to penetrate these people when they are involved in these plots and these plans. And we have to give the local authorities the ability to penetrate to disrupt. That's what we need to do. Encryption is a major problem, and Congress has got to deal with this and so does the president to keep us safe.Yeah, let me -- let me just suggest to everybody, and I hear -- last February, I said we needed to have people on the ground in a coalition with Europe and our allies. This is not going to get done just by working with the Sunnis. And it is not going to get done if we just embed a few people.We have to go massively, like we did in the first Gulf War where we destroyed Saddam's ability to take Kuwait. We need to have a coalition that will stand for nothing less than the total destruction of ISIS and we have to be the leader. We can't wait for anybody else. I served on the Armed Services Committee for 18 years and we must lead, or the job won't get done, unfortunately, for our country.
I don't understand this thing about Assad. He has to go. Assad is aligned with Iran and Russia. The one thing we want to prevent is we want to prevent Iran being able to extend a Shia crescent all across the Middle East. Assad has got to go.
And there are moderates there. There are moderates in Syria who we should be supporting. I do not support a civil war. I don't want to be policeman of the world. But we can't back off of this. And let me tell you, at the end, the Saudis have agreed to put together a coalition inside of Syria to stabilize that country.
He must go. It will be a blow to Iran and Russia.
The foreign policy, you have to know how to pick and choose. There's no way, if Saddam had not had weapons of mass destruction, I would have gone, because I don't believe that the U.S. should be involved directly in civil wars.I opposed the U.S. involvement in Lebanon. We ended up having to withdraw our marines after our barracks were blown up.There is a difference between Iraq, where you have Sunni, Shia, and Kurds put together after the First World War by the Western powers. It doesn't work. It needs to break up into three parts.
And for the Russians, frankly, it's time that we punched the Russians in the nose. They've gotten away with too much in this world and we need to stand up against them, not just there, but also in Eastern Europe where they threaten some of our most precious allies.
It sounds more and more what my daughter said that I said in the beginning, all the fighting and arguing is not advancing us. It is not the way we're going to strengthen our country. We will strengthen our country when we come together.
And, look, you've got Rand Paul, you've got Ted Cruz, you've got Marco, you've got a lot of people on this stage that have studied these issues. You know what a leader does? A leader has a sound program, has a good policy, and then brings people together to solve problems.Guess what? Both in Congress in balancing the budget and in Ohio fixing the economy -- and, by the way, we talk about the fence. The first thing we better get going is strengthening our economy, because if we don't have a strong economy, we can't pay for all of this. And the world wants us to be able to function from strength, believe it or not. Get our economy going, get these people together in a room. We can fix this, ladies and gentlemen.We don't have to fight all the time. It can be done, and we will be great when we join together. Thank you, Hugh.
You know, obviously, as president of the United States, we've got to keep the people safe. That's first and foremost.But as governor of Ohio, I have an obligation to keep the 11.5 million people in Ohio safe. And we have been very effective with our Joint Terrorism Task Force, being able to make busts.In fact, we just made one three-four weeks ago against a person who was favorable to ISIS living in Akron.But let me tell you what is interesting about the administration. We had Central American miners that were placed in Ohio, and we never knew a thing about it. We didn't know where they were. And, in fact, we know now that some of them, there is a case going on where some of them may have been human-trafficked.So when the administration tells me we have a great vetting process, the proof is in the pudding. They sent these miners to us. Our schools were disrupted. We didn't know where they were. And bad things happened to them. And now they tell me that we ought to be able to admit these Syrian refugees.So, Wolf, look, people have accused me at times of having too big of a heart. You know, that's OK. But I have to also to say I must keep the people of my state safe. So we take a pause.No Republican has ever been elected president of the United States without winning Ohio. Let me give you a little tip on how you win Ohio, it's reform, it's hope, it's growth, it's opportunity, and it's security.The people of Ohio are the people of America. The people of America are reflected in Ohio. Our message has to be big, and bold, and positive, and connect, not just with people's heads but also connect with their hearts.If we do it, we will beat Hillary Clinton, and we will run the White House, and we will strengthen and fix America, I promise you.Hello, I’m John Kasich, the Governor of Ohio. Emma, and Reese, my children, and Karen, love ‘ya girls. Thanks for watching tonight.By the way, I think I actually flew on this plane with Ronald Reagan when I was a congressman, and his goals, and mine, really much — are pretty much the same. Lift Americans, unify, give hope, grow America, and restore it is to that great, shining city on a hill.Yes, he was a great one, and I learned much from watching him. The most important thing, hope to Americans, unify, lift everyone in America.
Well, let me just say this. First of all, I think it’s a bad agreement, I would never have done it. But, you know, a lot of our problems in the world today is that we don’t have the relationship with our allies. If we want to go everywhere alone, we will not have the strength as (ph) if we could rebuild with our allies.Now, this agreement, we don’t know what’s going to happen in 18 months. I served on the Defense Committee for 18 years. I’ve seen lots of issues in foreign affairs, and foreign — in terms of global politics, you have to be steady.Now, here’s the — if they cheat, we slap the sanctions back on. If they help Hamas, and Hezbollah, we slap the sanctions back on. And, if we find out that they may be developing a nuclear weapon, than the military option is on the table. We are stronger when we work with the Western civilization, our friends in Europe, and just doing it on our own I don’t think is the right policy.
No, no, no. I want to — I want to — I want to say something about what the senator just said.
No one is — no — let me — let me suggest to you we believe that we operate better in the world when our allies work with us. President Bush did it in the Gulf War. We work better when we are unified.Secondly, nobody’s trusting Iran. They violate the deal, we put on the sanctions, and we have the high moral ground to talk to our allies in Europe to get them to go with us.If they don’t go with us, we slap the sanctions on anyway. If they fund these radical groups that threaten Israel and all of the West, then we should rip up the deal and put the sanctions back on.And let me make it clear — let me make it clear if we think — if we think they’re getting close to a — to developing a nuclear weapon and we get that information, you better believe that I would do everything in my power as the commander-in-chief to stop them having a nuclear weapon.
We can have it, and we can have our allies, and we can be strong as a country, and we can project across this globe with unity, not just doing it alone. That is not what gets us where we want to get as a nation.
Well, I agree that we should defund Planned Parenthood. I don’t know many people in America who don’t think that we should, and in my state, we’re trying to figure out how to get it done, because we are threatened with the federal government taking all of our Medicaid money away.I think there is a way to get this done by giving governors the ability to be able to act to defund Planned Parenthood. But when 
it comes to closing down the federal government, you gotta be very careful about that.When we shut the government down — if we have a chance at success and it’s a great principle, yes. The president of the United States is not going to sign this, and all we’re gonna do is shut the government down, and then we’re gonna open up — open it up, and the American people are gonna shake their heads and say, “what’s the story with these Republicans?”So I think there is a way to get to cutting off the funding for Planned Parenthood. I was in the Congress for 18 years, balanced the budget, cut taxes, got it done. Changed welfare, went around the president to get welfare reform done.There are ways to do it without having to shut the government down, but I’m sympathetic to the fact that we don’t want this organization to get funding, and the money ought to be reprogrammed for family planning in other organizations that don’t support this tactic.But I would not be for shutting the government down because I don’t think it’s going to work out.
OK, Jake.
I don’t at this point in terms of changing the incentives for investment and risk-taking.But let’s just stop for a second. There’s one person on this stage that does have a record. I’m the only person on the stage and one of the few people in this country that led the effort as the chief architect of the last time we balanced the federal budget.We also cut taxes. And when I left Washington in 2000, we had a $5 trillion surplus, and the economy was booming. I had spent 10 years of my life to get us to that point, went out in the private sector, was a great experience, and went into Ohio and took an $8 billion hole and turned it into a $2 billion surplus.We’ve had the largest amount of tax cuts of any sitting governor. We’ve grown well over 300,000 jobs. You see, I’ve done it in both places. I’m the only one here that has done it in both places.It took a lot to get us to a balanced budget. It was legitimate. It was real. And we negotiated it. A lot of what we’re talking about here tonight as we take this position and that position, you know what? At the end of the day, America has got to work.We’ve got to figure out how we come together to deal with this — with our fiscal problems because when we deal with that, we create a stronger economy for everybody. People have a chance to rise.So, you know, when we think about how we make a choice, it’s the person that lands that plane. It’s not somebody that talks about it. It’s about the person who has done it. And I’ve done it in both places. And I did it including people in the other party. And that’s how we were successful.
And that’s how I will be president, using that experience to drive this country forward. Thank you.
Well, look, people still have to get to know me, so I want to spend my time talking about my experience reforming welfare, balancing budgets, cutting taxes, providing economic growth when I was in Washington, turning Ohio around. Eight billion in the hole, $2 billion surplus, up over 300,000 jobs, big tax cuts, strengthening our credit.All those things matter but, you know, as a young man in my first election in 1978, I defeated an incumbent Democrat. I defeated an incumbent Democrat in 1982; running on the Reagan program, I was the only Republican in America to defeat an incumbent Democrat that year.And then, when I won for election of governor, I was the first Republican to defeat an incumbent in 36 years, and the first person to have never run statewide out of politics for 10 years to beat an incumbent. That hadn’t happened for 96 years.So, we’ll get to the point where we’ll talk about Hillary Clinton, or whoever the nominee is, record. But right now, I want to give people sense of hope, sense of purpose, a sense of unity, sense that we can do it. So...
You know, at the end of the day, I’m going to continue to talk about my record, because there is, did you ever notice when people run for office, they run for president, they make a lot of promises, they don’t keep them.
 don’t intend to do that, and I going to be out there pushing it out — don’t worry about me and Hillary. That will all work out, and I’m from Ohio. She will not beat me there, I can promise you that.
Can I just — can I — Jake, can I just make one point on this whole military discussion?
I called for boots on the ground many months ago in a coalition with our friends who share our interest. You know, you win a battle with the military, and when we go somewhere, we need to be mobile, and lethal. We need to take care of business, and we need to come home.But, we face, also, a bigger war — and you win the bigger war with the battle of ideas. You wonder why young people, and educated people, rich people, schooled people, have tried to join ISIS.Western civilization, all of us, need to wake up to the fact that those murderers and rapists need to be called out, and in Western civilization we need to make it clear that our faith in the Jewish and Christian principals force us to live a life bigger than ourselves to make centers of justice so that we can battle the radicals, call them out for what they are, and make sure that all of our people feel fulfilled in living in Western civilization. This is a giant battle in the world today...
Well, it’s probably not, maybe, legal, but, I would pick Mother Theresa, the lady that I had a chance to meet, a woman who lived a life so much bigger than her own. An inspiration to everyone when we think about our responsibility to love our neighbor as we love ourselves.Well, I have one now — they call me, “Unit One”.My wife says, “You’ll never be Unite One, I’m Unite One. You’re Unit Two.” 
Well, as president, I will make this a nation that will solve problems. And how? By having the elected officials and the leaders realize they’re Americans before they’re Republicans or Democrats. I did it in Washington. And I’ve done it in Ohio by having the elected officials realize that they’re Ohioans before anything else.Secondly, I will rebuild the relationships and show the respect to our allies around the world. We have no choice but to do that. We will be stronger when we are unified. And we’ll fight for freedom and for human rights.And finally, a little bit of what Carly said. The people that are out there listening, America was never great because we ran America from the top down. America is great because we have run America from the bottom up, where we all live in the neighborhoods.One more time in America, we need to revive the concept of citizenship, where everybody’s actions make a huge difference in changing the world. We have a Holocaust memorial on our state house grounds. And there is one line on there that stands out all the time. “If you’ve saved one life, you’ve changed the world.”
We need to adopt that as citizens and rebuild and reinspire our country. Thank you.
First of all, let me just say that, in the state of Ohio -- and I'm the only acting executive on -- on this stage today -- we do have a moderate increase in the minimum wage. And I got to tell you, my father carried mail on his back. His father was a coal miner. He died of black lung. He was losing his eyesight. My mother's mother lived with us. She could barely speak English. I come from a town where if the wind blew the wrong way, people found themselves out of work. An economic theory is fine, but you know what? People need help.Now, I have a plan that, in fact, would cut taxes, but not $11 trillion or $12 trillion that would put my children further in debt. I have a plan that would not only cut taxes, lower the income tax rate for individuals, lower the tax for businesses so businesses will compete here and not move operations overseas, and also a plan -- the only plan of anybody standing on this stage to get us to a balanced budget by the end of a second term.And, you know, the simple fact of the matter is, we hear a lot of promises in this debate, a lot of promises about these tax cuts or tax schemes sometimes that I call them. Hillary and the Democrats promise everything on the spending side. We've got to be responsible about what we propose on the tax side.Yes, lower taxes, lower spending. My website, JohnKasich.com, will show you exactly how we balance the budget. I balanced the budget in Washington as a chief architect, and I have balanced it in Ohio for one reason. When you balance the budget and you cut taxes, people get work.And our most important moral purpose as leaders in the political system is to make sure we create an environment for job creation so people can live their dreams and realize their God-given potential. That's why it's so important.And for those at the bottom, we've got to do what we can to train them so they can move up. But to just look the other way is not acceptable, because, you know what, as the governor of Ohio I have to deal with real challenges, and we've gotten it done in our state, and I will do it for America.Sure. We would move the Medicare system from a 7 percent growth down to about a 5 percent growth. And I have a whole series of ways to do that. In Ohio, we reduced Medicaid funding for the poor from 10 percent to 2.5 percent, didn't cut one benefit or didn't take anybody off the rolls. Why? Because we're innovators. I've been an innovator my entire career. And I really don't care what special interests or lobbyists have to say. I have a job to do when I take over a public office. Now, we freeze non-defense discretionary for eight years. We also put an increase in defense spending. Our tax cuts balance out. And at the end of the day, we will get to a balanced budget.And I want everybody here to know, when I was Budget Committee chairman in Washington, I stepped on every toe in that town, and we got to a balanced budget, and we had enormous job growth. And as governor of Ohio, we went from 350,000 lost jobs to a gain of 347,000 jobs.
 I'll do it in Washington. I've done it twice; I'll do it thrice for the United States of America.
 Excuse me.Yeah, I would like to make a comment.
I appreciate it, Jeb. I'm all of you. But I want at some point to talk about a value-added tax and $11 trillion, $12 trillion tax cuts that will put our kids way deeper in the hole than they have been at this point. So I would like to talk about it at some point, because that's what leadership is.
Maria, can we comment on that?
Can we comment on that?
Well, look, in 1986 Ronald Reagan basically said the people who were here, if they were law-abiding, could stay. But, what didn't happen is we didn't build the walls effectively and we didn't control the border. We need to. We need to control our border just like people have to control who goes in and out of their house.But if people think that we are going to ship 11 million people who are law-abiding, who are in this country, and somehow pick them up at their house and ship them out of Mexico -- to Mexico, think about the families. Think about the children.So, you know what the answer really is? If they have been law- abiding, they pay a penalty. They get to stay. We protect the wall. Anybody else comes over, they go back.But for the 11 million people, come on, folks. We all know you can't pick them up and ship them across, back across the border. It's a silly argument. It is not an adult argument. It makes no sense.Jerry, Gerald, it was an attack.
In the state of Ohio, the state of Ohio, we have grown 347,000 jobs. Our unemployment is half of what it was. Our fracking industry, energy industry may have contributed 20,000, but if Mr. Trump understood that the real jobs come in the downstream, not in the upstream, but in the downstream. And that's where we're going to get our jobs.But Ohio is diversified. And little false little things, sir, they don't really work when it comes to the truth. So the fact is, all I'm suggesting, we can't ship 11 million people out of this country. Children would be terrified, and it will not work.Let me tell you this, Mr. Baker, in terms of the cyber attacks, we have the capability to not only have a defensive posture, but it also to make it clear to people that if you attack us with cyber attacks, we will destroy the mechanisms that you are using to attack us.I want to give you a little trip around the world. I served on the Defense Committee for 18 years. In the Ukraine, arm the people there so they can fight for themselves. In the eastern part of Europe, make sure that Finland and the Baltics know that if the Russians move, we move.In Syria, yes, a no-fly zone in the north on the Turkish border, a no-fly zone on the south on the Jordanian border. Anybody flies in the first time, maybe they can fly out. They fly in there a second time, they will not fly out.And it also becomes a sanctuary for the people to be. And it also sends many messages in the Middle East that we're still involved.Saudi Arabia, cut off the funding for the radical clerics, the ones that preach against us. But they're fundamentally our friends. Jordan, we want the king to reign for 1,000 years. Egypt, they have been our ally and a moderating force in the Middle East throughout their history.In the groups -- in the countries of the Gulf states of Bahrain, the Cleveland Clinic is opening an operation. Clearly we see the same with them. And in Israel, we have no better ally in the world, and no more criticizing them in public, we should support them.And finally China, China doesn't own the South China Sea, and I give the president some credit for being able to move a naval force in there to let the Chinese know that we're not going to put up with it any more.And in the trade agreement, the TPP, it's critical to us, not only for economic reasons and for jobs, because there are so many people who are connected to getting jobs because of trade, but it allows us to create not only economy alliances, but also potentially strategic alliances against the Chinese. They are not our enemy, but they are certainly not our friend.And finally, I will say to everyone in this room, we have been talking about taxes and economics. When the fall comes, and we run against Hillary, which will be a disaster if she got elected. I have two 16-year-old girls, and I want this country to be strong.We make promises we can't keep under the bright light of the fall, we will have trouble. We must make sure that economic programs and our military programs are solid. I served in Washington as the chairman of the Budget Committee, and we got the budget balanced.And in Ohio, as the CEO, and guess what, we have got to have a CEO mentality and a way to beat Hillary Clinton and the Democracies in the fall. And our ideas have to add up. They have to be solid. And people have to know we have the confidence to lead America.And as president, I will lead this country, as I have before in Washington and in Ohio, and will return both on domestic and international affairs. And I appreciate the opportunity to speak this time, Gerry.
Let me -- let me also say, Gary -- Gary, let me also say, Jeb is -- what Jeb is talking about with the big banks is to force them to reserve their capital, people who invest it and they hold their capital, so that if the bank goes down, the people who are invested in the bank are the ones that pay. That's what he's trying to say.Secondly, I'll tell you about Wall Street: There's too much greed. And the fact is, a free enterprise system is a system that's produced the greatest wealth for the world. But you know Michael Novak, the great Catholic theologian, says that a free enterprise system that is not underlaid with values -- and we should all think about the way we conduct our lives -- yes, free enterprise is great, profits are great, but there have to be some values that underlay it, and they need a good ethics lesson on Wall Street on a regular basis to keep them in check so we, the people, do not lose.Neil, that's the difference of being an executive. And let me just explain: when a bank is ready to go under and depositors are getting ready to lose their life savings, you just don't say we believe in philosophical concerns. You know what an executive has to decide? When there's a water crisis, how do we get water to the city? When there's a school shooting, how do you get there and help heal a community? When there are financial crisis, or a crisis with ebola, you got to go there and try to fix it.Philosophy doesn't work when you run something. And I gotta tell you, on-the-job training for president of the United States doesn't work. We've done it for 8 years, -- and almost 8 years now. It does not work.
We need an executive who's been tried, has been tested, and judge the decisions that that executive makes. I don't like what the Fed is doing, but I'll tell you what worries me more than anything else: turning the Fed over to the Congress of the United States so they can print the money. That would be a very bad approach.I wouldn't. I wouldn't.
No. No, I didn't say that.They were -- they were talking about what you would do with depositors. Would you let these banks shut down?My argument is, going forward, the banks have to reserve the capital, so that the -- so that the people who own the capital start pressuring the banks to not take these risky approaches, Ted.I'm gonna tell you this. Let me tell you this.
I would not let the people who put their money in there all go down.
As an executive -- no. As an executive, I would figure out how to separate those people who can afford it versus those people, or the hard-working folks who put those money in those institutions...
Let me say another thing. Here's what I mean by that. Here's what I mean by that.When you are faced -- when you are faced, in the last financial crisis, with banks going under -- with banks going under, and people, people who put their -- their life savings in there, you got to deal with it. You can't turn a blind eye to it.Now, going forward, that's one thing. If you had another financial crisis, perhaps there would be an effort to make sure that we do.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, if Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders were to win this election, my 16-year-olds, I -- I worry about what their life is going to be like.You know, the conservative movement is all about opportunity. It is about lower taxes. It's about balanced budgets. It's about less regulation. And it's about sending power, money and influence back to where we live so we can run America from the bottom up.In addition to that, once we have the power and the money and the influence with programs we shift out, that each of us have a responsibility to reach out and to rebuild our families, make them stronger, and connect our neighborhoods. All that together -- wealth, connection, family -- America's greatest days are ahead. We must win this election.
Good question, but I want to tell you, my great concern is that we are on the verge, perhaps, of picking someone who cannot do this job.
I've watched to see people say that we should dismantle Medicare and Medicaid and leave the senior citizens out -- out in the -- in the cold. I've heard them talk about deporting 10 or 11 -- people here from this country out of this country, splitting families. I've heard about tax schemes that don't add up, that put our kids in -- in a deeper hole than they are today.We need somebody who can lead. We need somebody who can balance budgets, cut taxes...You know, frankly, I did it in Washington, in Ohio, and I will do it again in Washington, if I'm president, to get this country moving again.
Listen, I want to just comment.
Well I want to comment on this. This is the fantasy that I talked about in the beginning.
I'm the only person on this stage that actually was involved in the chief architect of balancing the Federal Budget.You can't do it with empty promised. You know, these plans would put us trillions and trillions of dollars in debt.I actually have a plan. I'm the only one on this stage that has a plan that would create jobs, cut taxes, balance the budget and can get it done because I'm realistic. You just don't make promises like this.Why don't we just give a chicken in every pot, while we're, you know, coming up -- coming up with these fantasy tax schemes. We'll just clean it up. Where are you gonna clean it up?You have to deal with entitlements, you have to be in a position to control discretionary spending. You gotta be creative and imaginative.Now, let me just be clear, John. I went into Ohio where we had an $8 billion hole and now we have a $2 billion surplus. We're up 347,000 jobs.When I was in Washington, I fought to get the budget balanced. I was the architect. It was the first time we did it since man walked on the moon. We cut taxes and we had a $5 trillion projected surplus when I left.That's was hard work. Fiscal discipline, know what you're doing. Creativity.This stuff is fantasy. Just like getting rid of Medicare and Medicaid. Come on, that's just not -- you scare senior citizens with that. It's not responsible.Well, I mean right here. To talk about we're just gonna have a 10 percent tithe and that's how we're gonna fund the government? And we're going to just fix everything with waste, fraud, and abuse? Or that we're just going to be great? Or we're going to ship 10 million Americans -- or 10 million people out of this country, leaving their children here in this country and dividing families?
Folks, we've got to wake up. We cannot elect somebody that doesn't know how to do the job. You have got to pick somebody who has experience, somebody that has the know-how, the discipline.And I spent my entire lifetime balancing federal budgets, growing jobs, the same in Ohio. And I will go back to Washington with my plan.
And I will have done it within 100 days, and it will pass. And we will be strong again. Thank you.Let me just -- let me respond. First of all, Ohio does have an energy industry, but we're diversified. We're one of the fastest growing states in the country. We came back from the dead. And you know what? It works very, very well.And secondly, when you talk about me being on the board of Lehman Brothers, I wasn't on the board of Lehman Brothers. I was a banker and I was proud of it. And I traveled the country and learned how people made jobs.We ought to have politicians who not only have government experience but know how the CEOs and the job creators work. My state is doing great across the board. And guess what, in 2011, I got a deal...
John Harwood, there's a bigger issue here. 
Well, first of all, when we talk about the Import Export Bank, it's time to clean up corporate welfare. If we're gonna reform welfare for poor people, we ought to reform it for rich people, as well. Secondly, in our state, we went from a loss of 350,000 jobs to, now, a gain of 347,000 jobs to the positive. Our wages are growing faster than the national average, and I've cut taxes more than any sitting governor in this state -- $5 billion, including no taxes on small business and killing the death tax.I want to go back to what we were talking about earlier, this budget deal in Washington.This is the same old stuff since I left.You spend the money today and then you hope you're going to save money tomorrow.I don't know if people understand, but I spent a lifetime with my colleagues getting us to a federal balanced budget. We actually did it. And I have a road map and a plan right now to get us to balance.Reforming entitlements, cutting taxes. You see, because if you really want to get to a balanced budget, you need to reduce your expenses and you need to grow your economy. So what I will tell you about our incentives -- our incentives are tight, and at the end of the day we make sure that we gain more from the creation of jobs than what we lose.And you know what? Ohio, one of the best growing places in the country -- I not only did it in Washington, I did it in Ohio, and I'll go back to Washington, and there will be no more silly deals...If I become President because we'll have a Constitutional Amendment to require a federally balanced budget so they will do their job.
Well, first of all, we're running a $2 billion dollar surplus, we're not having a revenue problem right now. And, sending mixed signals to kids about drugs is a disaster. Drugs is one of the greatest scourge in this country, and I spent five years of my administration working with my team to do a whole sort of things to try to reign in the problem of overdoses, and it goes on and on. We could do a whole show on that.I want to go back for a second thought on this issue of income inequality. My program would move the 104 programs of the federal Department of Education into four block grants, and send them back to the states because income inequality is driven by a lack of skills when kids don't get what they need to be able to compete and win in this country.The fact is, in order to get this economy moving again, I call for freezing regulations for a year except for the problem of public safety. I believe that we need to cut these taxes down, we need to be on a roadmap to balancing the budget, and we need to send power, money, and influence, the welfare department, the education department, job training, infrastructure, Medicaid, all of that out of Washington back to the states so we can run these programs from where we live to the top, not a one size fits all mentality that they have in Washington.And, that will get to the nub of opportunity for our children, and an ability to see wages rise.
One more time, in Ohio, our wages are growing faster than the national average. We've cut taxes, balanced budgets, changed the regulatory environment. Folks, you want to fix America, this is the formula. It worked for Reagan and it works for our team in Ohio. Thank you.
I wanna tell you, in my state, we took Medicaid, the hardest program to control, and we took it from a 10 percent growth rate to 2.5 percent without taking one person off the rolls or cutting one single benefit.And so much of what we did -- to force competition, to use technology, to stand down the special interest groups -- can you imagine taking Medicaid from 10 to 2.5 percent?We can take many of those same procedures, we can apply it to Medicare. We can make a stronger program. But I agree with Jeb, you can't just do this by growing the economy. You can't grow your way out of demographics.But we can give people better health care. And finally, on health care, why don't we start treating -- keep giving incentives for people to keep people healthy, rather than giving the incentives to treat them when they're sick?
I was on morning Joe at a town hall and a young student stood up and said, "Can I still be idealistic?"I said, absolutely, you can still change the world. And, you know the old inscription, if you save one life, you've changed the world. Folks, we have a problem here with the leadership in Washington, but I'll tell you another
problem. We need to rebuild our families. We need to have stronger families. We need to know who our neighbors are. We need to come together as a country because we have to realize that America is great, not from the top-down. Oh yeah, we want to elect a good president, but America is great from the bottom-up, and the bottom-up is us in our families, in our communities, in our neighborhoods. We will renew America if we work together, and I am totally confident that we will. And God bless America.
Well, first of all Megyn, you should know that — that President Reagan expanded Medicaid three or four times.Secondly, I had an opportunity to bring resources back to Ohio to do what?To treat the mentally ill. Ten thousand of them sit in our prisons. It costs $22,500 a year to keep them in prison. I’d rather get them their medication so they could lead a decent life.Secondly, we are rehabbing the drug-addicted. Eighty percent of the people in our prisons have addictions or problems. We now treat them in the prisons, release them in the community and the recidivism rate is 10 percent and everybody across this country knows that the tsunami of drugs is — is threatening their very families.So we’re treating them and getting them on their feet. And, finally, the working poor, instead of them having come into the emergency rooms where it costs more, where they’re sicker and we end up paying, we brought a program in here to make sure that people could get on their feet.And do you know what?Everybody has a right to their God-given purpose.
And finally, our Medicaid is growing at one of the lowest rates in the country. And, finally, we went from $8 billion in the hole to $2 billion in the black. We’ve cut $5 billion in taxes and we’ve grown 350,000 jobs.
Chris, first of all, I was just saying to Chris Christie, they say we’re outspoken, we need to take lessons from Donald Trump if we’re really going to learn it. Here is the thing about Donald Trump. Donald Trump is hitting a nerve in this country. He is. He’s hitting a nerve. People are frustrated. They’re fed up. They don’t think the government is working for them. And for people who want to just tune him out, they’re making a mistake.Now, he’s got his solutions. Some of us have other solutions. You know, look, I balanced the federal budget as one of the chief architects when I was in Washington. Hasn’t been done since. I was a military reformer. I took the state of Ohio from an $8 billion hole and a 350,000 job loss to a $2 billion surplus and a gain of 350,000 jobs.
But the point is that we all have solutions. Mr. Trump is touching a nerve because people want the wall to be built. They want to see an end to illegal immigration. They want to see it, and we all do. But we all have different ways of getting there. And you’re going to hear from all of us tonight about what our ideas are.
Let’s start off with my father being a mailman. So I understand the concerns of all the folks across this country, some of whom having trouble, you know, making ends meet. But I think she will come in a narrow way. The nominee of this party, if they’re going to win, has got to come at it in a big way, which is pro-growth. Which is balancing budgets. You know, we were talking about it. People were saying, could we do it? I was the chairman of the Budget Committee and the lead architect the last time it happened in Washington, and when we did it we had great economic growth, we cut taxes, and we had a big surplus.Economic growth is the key. Economic growth is the key to everything. But once you have economic growth, it is important that we reach out to people who live in the shadows, the people who don’t seem to ever think that they get a fair deal. And that includes people in our minority community; that includes people who feel as though they don’t have a chance to move up.You know, America is a miracle country. And we have to restore the sense that the Amiracle will apply to you. Each and every one of the people in this country who’s watching tonight, lift everybody, unite everybody and build a stronger United States of America again. It will be and can be done.
Well, look, I’m an old-fashioned person here, and I happen to believe in traditional marriage. But I’ve also said the court has ruled and I said we’ll accept it.And guess what, I just went to a wedding of a friend of mine who happens to be gay. Because somebody doesn’t think the way I do, doesn’t mean that I can’t care about them or can’t love them. So if one of my daughters happened to be that, of course I would love them and I would accept them. Because you know what?
That’s what we’re taught when we have strong faith.
So the issues like that, issues like that are planted to divide us. I think the simple fact of the matter is, and this is where I would agree with Jeb, and I’ve been saying it all along, we need to give everybody a chance, treat everybody with respect, and let them share in this great American dream that we have, Megan. So, look, I’m going to love my daughters, I’m going to love them no matter what they do. Because, you know
what, God gives me unconditional love. I’m going to give it to my family and my friends and the people around me.Well, Megyn, my father was a mailman. His father was a coal miner. My mother’s mother could barely speak English. And their son today stands on this podium in the great state of Ohio not only as the governor, but a candidate for president of the United States.
I do believe in miracles. You know, I’ve had a lot of elections. But my elections are really not about campaigns. I tell my people that these are about a movement. And a movement to do what? To restore common sense. A movement to do things like provide economic growth. And a movement not to let anybody be behind.You know, today the country is divided. You asked a question about the police and the difficulty in communities. We’ve got to unite our country again, because we’re stronger when we are united and we are weaker when we are divided.And we’ve got to listen to other people’s voices, respect them, but keep in mind, and I believe in terms of the things that I’ve read in my lifetime, the lord is not picking us. But because of how we respect human rights, because that we are a good force in the world, he wants America to be strong.
He wants America to succeed. And he wants America to lead. And nothing is more important to me than my family, my faith, and my friends.
You know, tonight we hear about what people want to do. I want to tell you what I’ve done. I was a member of the Armed Services Committee for 18 years. I spent a big chunk of my life studying national security issues and our role in the world.No. 2. I was the chairman of the House Budget Committee and one of the chief architects the last time we balanced a budget, and it was the first time we had done it since man walked on the moon. We had a $5 trillion surplus and we cut taxes.I spent ten years in the private sector, actually learning how business works. And now I’m the governor of Ohio, and I inherited a state that was on the brink of dying. And we turned it all around with jobs and balanced budgets and rising credit and tax cuts, and the state is unified, and people have hope again in Ohio.
Well, John, first of all, if I were president, we wouldn’t have the divisions in the country we have today. I do want to take a second as we reflected on Judge Scalia, it’s amazing — it’s not even two minutes after the death of Judge Scalia, nine children here today, their father didn’t wake up. His wife, sad, but I just wish we hadn’t run so fast into politics.Here’s my concern about this. The country is so divided right now, and now we’re going to see another partisan fight take place. I really wish the president would think about not nominating somebody. If you were to nominate somebody, let’s have him pick somebody that’s going to have unanimous approval, and such widespread approval across the country that this could happen without a lot of recrimination. I don’t think that’s going to happen, and I would like the president just to, for once here, put the country first. We’re going to have an election for president very soon, and the people will understand what is at stake in that election.And so I believe the president should not move forward, and I think that we ought to let the next president of the United States decide who is going to run that Supreme Court with a vote by the people of the United States of America. 
First of all — yes. First of all, look, we have to make it clear to Russia what we expect. We don’t have to declare an enemy, rattle a sword or threaten, but we need to make it clear what we expect. No. 1 is we will arm the folks in Ukraine who are fighting for their freedom. They deserve it. There will be no ifs, ands or buts about it.Secondly, an attack on NATO, trumped up on any excuse of Russian- speaking people, either in the NATO countries or in Finland or Sweden, is going to be an attack on us. And look, I think we have an opportunity as America to put something really great together again.The Egyptians, the Saudis, the Jordanians, the Gulf states, they all know they’re at risk. We need to look into Europe, we look at France, we look at Germany and the migrants. We look at Belgium, we look at Britain. Everybody now is being threatened by radical Islam. We have an opportunity to lead.You know, the fact of the matter is the world is desperate for our leadership. Sometimes they may — they may make a remark here or there that we don’t like, but frankly, the world needs us. And we have an opportunity now to assemble a coalition of the civilized people, those who respect civilization, the rights of women, the rights to protest, to be able to reassert our leadership all across this globe again and make sure this century is going to be the best we’ve ever seen.
I’ve got to tell you, this is just crazy, huh?
This is just nuts, O.K.? Jeez, oh, man. I’m sorry, John.
Oh, well, listen, I think being in Iraq, look, we thought there were weapons of mass destruction. Colin Powell, who is one of the most distinguished generals in modern time, said there were weapons there.
But, but, the fact is we got ourselves in the middle of a civil war. The Sunni, the Shia and the Kurds, never gotten along. In fact, that country was drawn — the borders of that country were drawn after World War I by Westerners that didn’t understand what was happening there. The tragedy of it is that we’re still embroiled. And, frankly, if there weren’t weapons of mass destruction, we should never have gone. I don’t believe the United States should involve itself in civil wars. Civil wars are not in our direct interest, and if you — and look, I served on a defense committee for 18 years and was called into the Pentagon after 9/11 by Secretary Rumsfeld to deal with some of the most serious problems that we faced.The fact is, is that we should go to war when it is our direct interest. We should not be policemen of the world, but when we go, we mean business. We’ll do our job. We’ll tell our soldiers, our people in the service, take care of your job and then come home once we’ve accomplished our goals.That’s what we need to do.Yeah. Well, first of all, those numbers, incorrect. We are — our Medicaid programs are coming in below cost estimates, and our Medicaid program in the second year grew at 2.5 percent.
And Kimberley, let me tell you, when we expand Medicaid and we treat the mentally ill, then they don’t live under a bridge or live in a prison, where they cost $22,500 a year.When we take the drug addicted and we treat them in the prisons, we stop the revolving door of people in and out of prisons, and we save $22,500 a year.Guess what else? They get their lives back. And the working poor, they’re now getting health care. And you know that about a third of the people who are now getting that health care are people who are suffering very serious illnesses, particularly cancer.So, what I would tell you is, we’ve gone from an $8 billion hole to a $2 billion surplus. We’ve cut taxes by more than any governor in America by $5 billion. We have grown the number of jobs by 400,000 private-sector jobs since I’ve been governor.Our credit is strong. Our pensions are strong. And frankly, we leave no one behind. Economic growth is not an end unto itself. We want everyone to rise, and we will make them personally responsible for the help that they get.And that is exactly the program we’re driving in Ohio. And, boy, people ought to look at Ohio, because it has got a good formula.Yeah, let me say a couple of things.First of all, when Jeb was governor, his first four years as governor, he expand — his Medicaid program grew twice as fast as mine. O.K.? It’s just a fact.Now, with Obamacare, I’ve not only sued the administration, I did not set up an exchange. And he knows that I’m not for Obamacare, never have been. But here’s what’s interesting about Medicaid.You know who expanded Medicaid five times to try to help the folks and give them opportunity so that you could rise and get a job? President Ronald Reagan.
Now, the fact of the matter is, we expanded to get people on their feet, and once they’re on their feet, we are giving them the training and the efforts that they need to be able to get work and pull out of that situation.That’s what we’re doing in our state.
And the fact of the matter is, we went from an $8 billion hole to a $2 billion surplus. We’re up 400,000 jobs. Our credit is rock solid.
Look, the bottom line is the people of this — of this country and this state want to see everybody rise, and they want to see unity, and I don’t want to get into all this fighting tonight, because people are frankly sick of the negative campaigning.
Before I get to that, this is the ninth or 10th debate. What I’ve been watching here, this back and forth, and these attacks, some of them are personal. I think we’re fixing to lose the election to Hillary Clinton if we don’t stop this.
I mean, the fact is — you know what? I would suggest, why don’t we take off all the negative ads and all the negative comments down from television and let us just talk about what we’re for, and let’s sell that, and the Republican Party will be stronger as a result...
First of all, I’m for sealing the border, O.K.? And then I’m for a guest worker program. People can come in, work and go back home. We haven’t closed the border because special interests, I believe, blocked it. Then, we have 11 and a half million people here. If they have not committed a crime since they’ve been here, make them pay a fine and some back taxes, and give them a path to legalization, never to citizenship.It is not going to happen that we’re going to run around and try to drag 11 and a half million people out of their homes.I’ll tell you this. Within the first hundred days, I will send a plan like this to the Congress of the United States, and if I’m president, I’ll bet you dollar to doughnuts right now, it will pass.That is a reasonable proposal that the people of this country, in my judgment, will support, and so will the bulk of the Congress of the United States.
You know, John, I think all people are the same. Look, I did 106 town halls, and I’ve been doing them left and right here in South Carolina. The first thing we have to do is grow the economy, and I know the formula because I was chairman in Washington when we balanced the budget and created so many jobs, and the same that we’ve been able to do in Ohio. You need common-sense regulations so small business can flourish, you need lower taxes both on business and individuals, and you need a fiscal plan to be able to get ourselves in a situation where people can predict a little bit about the future when it comes to the fiscal issues.And when you have that formula, combined with work force that’s trained, you can explode the economy and create many jobs. I have done it twice, and I want to go back to Washington and do it again.John, the thing is, is I think that there are people now, these blue-collar Democrats — my dad was a blue-collar Democrat — the Democratic Party has left them. When they’re arguing about being socialists, they’ve left — they have lost those blue-collar Democrats.And you know what I think they get out of me — is my sense of what they get out of me, and it’s embarrassment about campaigns, you brag about yourself.But I think I’m a uniter, I think people sense it. I think they know I have the experience, and that I’m a man that can give people hope and a sense that they have the opportunity rise. And I’ll tell you, I love these blue-collar Democrats, because they’re going to vote for us come next fall, promise you that.
Well, I want to thank the people of South Carolina. You’ve been fantastic. And look, what I want you to know is I’m going to send a lot of power, money and influence back to where we all live. But as I’ve traveled around South Carolina, I’ve noticed something. You know, it’s that people have a sense that you’re not going to wait on a president. You know, when I was a kid, we didn’t wait on presidents to come to that little blue-collar town and fix things.You know, the Lord made all of us special. The Lord wants us to be connected. I believe we’re part of a very big mosaic. And I’ll send the power back. And whoever gets elected president here, hopefully will take care of the issue of jobs and wages and Social Security and the border.But the spirit of the America rests in all of us. It’s in our guts. It’s taking care of our children. It’s taking care of the lady next door who just lost her husband. It’s fixing the schools where we live and telling kids to stay off drugs. You see, I think what the Lord wants is for to us engage, and in America, the spirit of America doesn’t come from the top down. The spirit of America rests in us. And I want to call on everyone in America to double down and realize that you were made special to heal this country and lift it for everyone.Thank you all very much. And I hope I can have your vote in South Carolina.
Did I have a choice?No, it's great to be here. So much better than a debate. Right?I'm getting good at them. I hope tonight I do OK. 
That's a joke. You can laugh.It's been happening to me all over. I had a lady, maybe last night, epileptic. Told me about seizures. "Please help us." You know, people talk about these diseases. "Please help us with this."A man drove from New York to see me in New Hampshire, and he was crying at the end of the town hall, hugging me, and he said, "I should have warned my son about testicular cancer, because now the cancer is in his lungs."He said, "and I - I have a tape where you talked about hope." And I said, "sir, let it go. You're not responsible for this." And he left, and he called somebody, and he said, "felt like there was something lifted off of my shoulder."A lady at that same town hall was sitting way in the back, and we were talking about the problem of drugs. And she finally - you know, it was like mechanical stuff. You know, well - the things that we've done.And she raised her hand. She said, "my daughter's been sober for 11 months." And I looked, I said to the people, "do you know what it's like to be a mom and to have a - daughter, 11th months - 11 months sober? You don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. You walk on eggshells, and you just pray that my kid's gonna be OK."Anderson, I've seen it everywhere. It's one of the reasons why - you know, I love to talk about the conservative economic policies, but one of the things that I felt, and I've said in the campaign, is we all need to slow down a little bit.There are a lot of people out there who are lonely, and they're looking for a place to tell people about their issues. I mean, could you believe that - that young man?It's definitely - it's - it has slowed me down, and I have - and many of you, or some of you, have been at my town halls where I've talked about this. talked about this.You know, the strength of America is not some guy or woman coming in on a white charger here to solve our problems. Anderson, America, the glue of America, is right here in this room. It's in our communities, in our families. We need to slow down.And then, we've got to carry out our God-given destinies and potentials and gifts. And yet it's definitely changed me because it's slowing me down. And - but, you know, I've learned so much from - listen, everybody here. You've got to celebrate other people's wins, and sometimes you've got have to sit with them and cry because that's wha we need in this country.Let's get the economy going. Let's rebuild it. Let's get it going. We can deal with wages and fix Social Security and balance the budget and fix the regulations. But I also believe that the country works best when it is strong from the bottom up, not from the top down.And you mentioned my little hometown where I was born, Mckees Rocks. We didn't wait for somebody to come in and help us, we worked together. And that's what we've got to get back again. So if I can send the welfare programs and the job training and health care for the poor and I can send, you know, the education programs, thenit's up to us. It's up to us to rebuild this country and renew our spirit.You know, the spirit I don't think is going to be renewed by - look, you can be helped by a president. You know, Reagan said it was morning in America. He inspired us. But what really inspires us are the stories of people who are just like us who change the world. And I don't mean to go on, but this is a big, big part of what we need to think about as Americans.South.Virginia, Mississippi.You know, I don't really worry about much. I just go do my job. 
No, I don't, because it's been such a privilege to get even this far. To be able to get out and see the crowds and - that's worth the price of admission being able t hear that young man, and we're going to go to Georgia. We're going to go to - we're going to try to get them to spend some -Oh, yes. Look, and we're - I'm going to be here tomorrow campaigning all day, then we're going to head up to Vermont, Massachusetts, then Virginia on Monday. I'm going to be in Mississippi, Louisiana. We're going the distance, Anderson.And here's the thing. People - when I - first of all, they didn't think I would do well in New Hampshire, as you know. And we did well. I mean, we finished second, and in Dixville Notch, I beat Donald Trump by 60 percent.Don't tell anybody, but it was 3 to 2. But, you know, we had at one point - you know, six months ago, we had six people at a town hall, and I come down here th day after New Hampshire, we got 500 people, we had 50 RSVPs and everything changed. So it's just pretty amazing. You take it in stride, you keep your feet on the ground. And people thought I'd do 1 percent or 2 percent here. I think we're going to do better. If I don't do better, I'm blaming you. I mean, I'm telling you now. 
Well, first of all, I'm pro-pope, OK? Put me down in the pro-pope column. And I don't - I've seen the whole - really. I mean, come on. Look, I don't know exactly - I read the whole quote, and it's a lot longer than that. And look, this is a guy who said when somebody asked him about somebody's behavior that wasn't consistent with what they thought the scripture was, he said, who am I to judge?I mean, this man has brought more sense of hope and more about the dos in life than the don'ts. I mean, when you think about religion, before we get to the don'ts - becaus when you mention religion, people get thought bubbles, like, oh no, he's coming in to tell me what I can't do. Why don't we think about what we can do, which is about humility and loving your neighbor and, you know, all that kind of stuff.And this guy has been so humble. And if you really want to understand this pope, a friend of mine, Dr. Barrett (ph), told me one time if you want to understand him, read book about St. Francis, because he is the essence of humility and he has opened the walls and the doors of the church to lots of people who didn't understand it.Now here's what I will say. We have a right to build a wall, but I've got to tell you, there are too many walls between us. We need bridges between us if we're going to fix the problems in Washington because all they do is have walls.And I just think we need to get these problems solved.Oh, good. Make the question easy, would you?Well, the one thing we want to make sure is they have healthcare, right? And that's a critical part for the working poor. But look, it all gets down to training an skills. And one of the things that we have to recognize in this country today is we have to have life-long learning and we have to keep training ourselves for the jobs thatexist today, and the jobs that exist tomorrow.But I've got to tell you, when you think about these working poor, especially if it's a woman, and her husband walked out on her and she's got a couple of kids, we've got to look at the child care. We've got to think about the child care tax credit. And we've got to get employers to begin to realize that, you know, give this person a chance. Give them a chance to be able to move up. Because if you get stuck, then it doesn't work.But one other thing I think we all need to realize, look, I was involved in balancing the federal budget. I spent 10 years of my life to get there in Washington, fighting everybody including Republicans, Democrats. I've always been a guy shaking up the system.And when we got there, we began to see significant job growth and opportunity for people. As governor, I went in. We were, you know, we had lost 350,000 jobs. Now, we're up over 400,000 jobs and our wages are growing faster than the national average in Ohio.So we need robust economic growth, because that helps everybody to rise. And how do you get it? Common sense regulations where you're not snuffing out small businesses, because they are the engine of job creation for some of these young people here. They're going to create more jobs than the big companies.Secondly, we need to have tax cuts for businesses and for individuals because that spurs economic growth. And finally, we've got $19 trillion in debt. We need to move to get this budget under control.Those three things, coupled with one other thing, and that is to get people trained for the jobs they're going to - that exist today and tomorrow. And that's called workforce. You get those three things done, though, at the top - regulatory reform, common sense lower taxes, business and people, and balancing a budget, you will see an explosion.And when I was in Washington, we saw the country's job picture explode, and the same in Ohio. And what I want to do is just take that formula that works and take it back And we know that it works, but you have to have discipline to carry it out.OK? But we have to be sensitive to these - to the folks that are really in a tough spot, you know, working two jobs. Think about that mother; gets up early in the morning; gets the kids off to school; goes to work; comes home; makes dinner. They're the heroes. They're really - these single women with children are the real heroes in America, in my opinion.So, thanks.Yeah.Oh, I have to stay on the blue.Yeah, that's a really good question. First of all, you're right about that. We should employ - or deploy our military whenever the national security risk is to the United States; that when we think that we're being threatened. And frankly, when we go, we ought to go, take care of the job, and then be able to come home once we finishedit.Getting in the middle of civil wars is not something that I've ever favored. Look, I was - I was on the Defense Committee for 18 years in Congress. I saw President Reaga rebuild the military. I saw the wall come down. I saw the first Gulf war. And I was called in the Pentagon by Secretary Rumsfeld after 9/11. And you learn a lot throughthat process of what this all means.So, look, what I will tell you is sometimes we can support people that have the same aims as we do. For example, I had called Senator McCain and Boehner well over a year ago and said we need to support the rebels in Syria. But I would not want to get in the middle of a civil war in Syria, any more than I wanted to get in the middle of a civil war when we were in Lebanon.I do think we have to go and defeat ISIS. And I have to tell you, the coalition to do that should look amazingly like what we had when we pushed Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait in the first Gulf war. Those are Muslim Arabs, and our friends in the West who can all come and take care of business. And then once the business is taken care of and things settle a little bit, come home and let them sort it out.sort it out.Nation-building, getting in the middle of civil wars is not a place for the United States military, in my opinion. We do have to rebuild the military because it ha run down. And I have a plan to put $100 billion more in the military.But I've got to tell you, we can't be paying - you know, I was one of the people that found the hammers and the screwdrivers and the wrenches that cost tens of thousands o dollars. Do you remember that scandal that happened?We have got to clean up waste wherever it exists so that the resources go to people like your brother in the front lines.So we go when it really matters to our direct national interest. We can support people who support our similar aims. No nation-building. Get the job done. Come home, and be a leader in the world. And have people's backs. OK?Well, we have to have a war against that. And I know that they won a Pulitzer in one of the major newspapers in this state. And - down in Charleston. In fact, they endorsed me today which was really a wonderful thing to have.And the lady actually - one of the reporters actually took me to the wall and showed me the Pulitzer that they won from saying that there was a time in this state where it was easier to hurt a woman than it was to hurt an animal.And they've begun to clean that up. And we put a lot of time into those kinds of issues in our state. I'll tell you another thing we worry about, sexual violence on a campusAnd I've noticed that time ago. And I said, there has got to be a place for young students, young women to be able to go where they can do things in confidentiality, where there can be a rape kit that can last because sometimes women don't want to move right away, but after a month or two they might want to move forward with some type o a prosecution.They should tell their story. But, I mean, think about a woman - I've got these two 16-year-old daughters. Could you imagine having somebody beat up your daughter or beat up your mother? We have to have an all-out war against this.And you know what, that's a very severe criminal act. And as president, you know, look, these laws are going to fundamentally be at the state level. But it doesn't mean th a president can't use a bully pulpit. It doesn't mean that a president can't speak out on some of these really significant moral issues.And I will do it. I don't always have to make a law to get somebody in the legislatures to begin to pay attention to these issues.Let me also tell you, we took on the issue of human trafficking. I don't know what you know about that, but there were in my state like 1,000 people who were - I was told by a Democrat who had walked out on my first state of the state address, I was like, why did she get so mad at me?She stormed out. She came back a couple months later to have a meeting with me. And I said, what can I do for you? She said, well, there's a problem with this human trafficking with the number of children that are trafficked.She said - I said, well, how is it going for you? She said, I haven't been able to pass anything. I said, well, what if we pass it? And she looked at me. And she stared at me And I went, hello? Are you still with me? Of course we're going to pass it.And so we have changed the laws around human trafficking where actually the woman who has been called a criminal has now been determined to be a victim. And now we're putting the pimps in jail and making sure the women can be rehabilitated in our state. It's a wonderful thing.And, look, I want to say, my wife Karen, who may even be watching tonight, you know, we've got these two 16-year-olds, she may be watching. She has been i the CATCH court in our city of Columbus, and we take women who before would have been discarded, we raise them up.She goes to the graduation ceremonies. They have their ceremonies in the governor's residence. This is a great, great progress.You know, a lot of these issues get ignored. The issues affecting the mentally ill, the drug addicted, the working poor, the issue of domestic violence, human trafficking. See, when we get that economy moving and growing, then we have an obligation, a real moral obligation to turn to those who live in the shadows and give them a chance t live out their God-given purpose.So thanks for the question. And you work with me, all right? You want to come to Washington and work? We can put you there. 
OK. Thank you very much.Is that consistent?Well, look, I've appointed well over 100 judges in Ohio. In fact, even appointed a judge to the Ohio Supreme Court who happens to be a woman who's done a fantastic job. What we try to look for is we want you to be a conservative.We don't want you to make law, we want you to interpret the law. That's what it means to be a conservative judge.And, secondly, you've got to be beyond reproach, in good character, you know? I mean, everybody in their life at some point did something dumb, right? I mean, we kno that, but overall, we want to look at how your temperament, we want to look at your attitude of fairness, and at the end of the day it's your approach to whether you make law, or whether you interpret that law as it relates to the constitution.In terms of the moral - you know, people say, how do you decide things? Well, if I got to decide something, I'm not turning to the scripture to figure it out, but also, you know, your faith can also influence some of the way you look at things. For example, with the women who were - who have been human trafficked, or the issue of mental illness. Of course it influences your ability to think about what can we do to lift them.But, at the end, when you're in public office you're not really there to be a preacher, you are there to be a public official, and that's the way it ought to be if you're on the U.S Supreme Court, OK?Listen, I told the people in Michigan that - look, I've been through the primary up there in Michigan. Let's just put everything aside, and get along. Afterall, I came down here after Clemson beat the Buckeyes a few years ago. That's still rubbing us raw up in Columbus...Yes sir, go ahead. I'm listening.It's obviously a critical question, and there's a complicated answer that I do want to give you. We've got very good healthcare experts in our state. In fact, we took our Medicaid program that was growing at 10 and 1/2 percent, and reduced it to two and a half percent in the second year I was governor without cutting one benefit, o throwing one person off the roles. So, we have spent a lot of time on healthcare.First of all, the problem with Obamacare is it does not control the costs of healthcare. They continue to escalate, and if they continue to the people who are going to be hur are the ones who are going to be rationed, which are going to be all of us because we probably are not going to have the money to be able to evade that.Secondly, health insurance costs in my state have gone up by an average of 80%, so to make healthcare more affordable - how do you make it more affordable when the costs are going up through the roof for the insurance? And, finally, it's trapped small businesses who don't want to get caught in the web of Obamacare. So what would I do?Well, I'd take some federal resources and I'd combine it with the freed up Medicaid plan to continue to cover the working poor. We can't eliminate this and have tens of millions of Americans without health insurance. And by the way if I'm president a pre-existing condition will never be acceptable to deny you health insurance. That is un- American to take people off because they got sick. That's just a rip-off.But here's the larger plan and we're actually doing this in our state and I would like to take it nationally. You see, we - we don't know how our hospitals really do and what their costs are and we really don't know how our doctors do or what their costs are. It's easier to interpret the Dead Sea Scrolls than it is a hospital bill.Did you ever figure that out? So what we want to do is total transparency. How's a hospital do? What's its quality? What's its readmission rate? What's its infection rate? An by the way with physicians you say you're good, what's the quality, what's the cost?And what we're doing is we're releasing all this information. We know some charge a lot, we know some charge less and right here in the midpoint. And what we're saying is if you can provide quality to a patient whether you're a hospital or a health care provider below the midpoint we will give you a financial reward if you're providing quality at a lower price.You see, we want to get the market into driving first of all your understanding of the system, your ability to make a choice and a constant effort to deliver high quality at a low price by giving people financial rewards. If your primary care doctor keeps you healthy for the year why not a little bit of a reward? And that's the way we're designing the system.We're doing it in Medicaid and now the health care insurance companies are beginning to say in an effort to control costs - because think of your deductibles. They're almos as high now as –as having a catasphorphic plan. So we have to get in the business of high quality at lower prices driven by the marketplace.And this isn't a theory. This is not some political theory. We are about to actually make the payments next year based on quality and low prices. And most of our health car systems have participated in this including the Cleveland Clinic. So thank you, sir... Yes...Yeah...Regret it...Listen, we drove the cost of this health care - of this Medicaid program to like 2.5 percent. The whole country would like to have a rate like that and how do we do it? We said that if mom and dad want to say in their own home rather than being forced in the nursing they ought to be able to do it.Once we stabilized the program I had the opportunity to bring these dollars back and Anderson, here's the deal. If I treat the mentally ill, I keep them from living in a priso at a $22,500 a year or sleeping under a bridge. We owe our mentally ill better treatment than that.Secondly, if I treat the drug addicted I keep them from being in a revolving door of in and out in prison and maybe even breaking into our cars to support their habit which they can't control. So we actually have the rehab people in the prisons release them into the community where there's more resources and our recidivism rate is 20 percent which is like miraculous.And then for the working poor - what we know about the working poor is they don't go to the emergency room until they're sickier and more expensive. And we think that one third of those working poor were people who had very severe illnesses including cancer who put off treatment. So this has worked out great for us and we're saving money and we're giving people an opportunity to be able to get their lives back.And I - I think it's been terrific and I said if the federal government monkeys around with the formula we'll withdraw from the program. But you know what's beginning to happen, everybody's saying well wait a minute. If you can treat the mentally ill, if you can help the drug addicted and you can help the working poor why wouldn't we be doing that?And they don't have to do it my way. Each state should do what they want to do but if you're not going to do what I'm doing then tell me what it is you're going to do. OK... OK ...Yeah, I'm really happy about it.Well, look, I'm not going to be measuring like the drapes. I've got a long way to go, OK? 
I mean, we're really, really early. But I'll tell you who I have been friends with for a while. I like him very much. I like Chris Christie a whole lot. And Chris and I actually, you know, are kind of buddies. I mean, his wife and I and my wife, you know, have been out to dinner. And I've always liked Chris. We kid and joke and he's a terrific guy.And so he's somebody that was a candidate who would be considered. And look, I'm open to - you know, these are all fine people. And you've got to realize that when you run for - like somebody says you ought to run for president. Do you know how hard it is to run for president? I mean, it is not easy. And so they all deserve an awful lot of respect, and I like them all. I just don't want to, you know, fight with them. I'd rather be up here than down here at that - you know, that kind of stuff. I was in a demolition derby on Saturday, but my car kept going around the track. So anyway, thank you. Are you available for anything? 
Could I get your resume? Thank you.Yeah. Well, I - I would say, first of all, we've got to get the overall economy growing. And I want to go back one more time. If you have too many regulations, you will choke small business. They are the engine of job creation in America.That's why it's important to bring the rates down for individual taxes - because most of those small businesses pay the individual rate. Give them the incentive on taxes, go through - you know, I - vice presidents usually spend their time going to funerals.I would like my vice president to spend his or her time trying to bring some rationality to all the rules and regulations, and force the Congress to vote on anything $100 million and above, and - and just stop all this flurry of regulation.And then, of course, if we can get a fiscal plan that gets us close to a balanced budget, which I've done before, you're going to see the economy take off.Now - so the small businesses, or the small towns - look. What we've done in Ohio's - and - and I knew this before being in business for ten years. You've got to look at the assets that you have.What makes you unique in Hartsville? What are the things that you can do there that maybe you can't do anywhere else? And that's what you have to focus on.See, I privatized economic development in Ohio, and I created a not-for-profit that has enough money to hire people who are actually skilled, and we look at - at the segments of our state, like we should as a country, and figure out what works.Some things work in big towns, some things work in midsize towns and some things work in small towns. But if I were economic development director of Hartsville, I'd b looking around at what the assets are that we have there that makes us special, where we can draw industry in. That is, I think, the way you want to do it.And also you want to diversify your industries, because if you depend on one thing - and you all know the story of the textile mills that went down. If you depend on just one thing, it won't work.And then we need to have a president who's actually gonna be - understands how business works, and also pro-job. I mean, if you don't have a job, you don't have much.And so there's - and we can get some of these businesses to come back from overseas. We've seen it in our state. But we have to - you know, lower the corporate tax rate so businesses will come in. But small-town investing is really cool. You know why? Wages are more manageable for businesses.But take advantage of the resources you have, and you better get ready to run that business, young man, OK? Thank you.Look, I'm for the Second Amendment. People have a right to defend themselves. They have a right to own these guns for a variety of reasons, including hunting and - and collection.I mean, we don't want to be messing around with the Second Amendment, plain and simple. And in our state, as governor, I've signed - you know, many of these - of these gun bills.I think the president, on one area he has hit on that I - and he shouldn't do it by executive order, but he - but we ought to look at it, and that's the issue of mental illness.We want to make sure states are able to upload the data so that we're not - when we do an instant check, we're not selling a gun to somebody who's unstable.And when we take a look at the problems of the mass shooters in this country, virtually every time that somebody is involved, when we check their record, there's an element of mental illness involved. So we gotta make sure we do that. But other than that, enforce the gun rules - the gun laws that we have now, and allow people to celebrate the fact that the Second Amendment is a very important part of the constitution.Probably not, no. I mean, I don't - I don't know all of them. But here's the problem with the president and - and - and the issue of - of executive orders.I do executive orders as governor of Ohio, but I check with the legislative leaders. And I say, "What do you think? I'm thinking about doing this." And sometime they'll say, "OK, go ahead and do it, but don't tell anybody I told you to do it."Because sometimes they don't want to have to vote on some of these issues, OK? But if you just jam stuff through, Anderson, what you're doing is you're just going to pus them off, and you have bigger fish to fry than any individual issue.So my view is you have to work with that legislature. You have to get along with them as an executive. See, I'm unique. I never thought about this in this way. I was a congressman for 18 years. I went in at 30, believe it or not. And so I understood how they feel about executives. And now I'm an executive, and I know how they feel abou legislators.And that is really key in getting things done. If we're going to balance a budget, fix the border, fix Social Security, deal with student loans - any of these other things that ar out there, you've got to do it together. Reagan had the boll weevils, which were the conservative Democrats. Kasich had the blue dogs when I was fighting to balance the budget, the conservative Democrats.We have to have some area of bipartisanship. But overall, the executive cannot - he or she cannot thumb their nose at the legislature because it is a relationship that has to work mutually. And I think the president doing executive orders has way exceeded his authority and created more, you know, more polarization down there, which is all going to have to be fixed.I want to give you one lighter thing. You know how you fix Congress? One of the things I'm going to do in the first 100 days is I'm going to get the phone numbers of all the moms and dads who have kids in Congress - I'm going to know then their birthdays are and I'm going to call mom on her birthday and she's going to cal her kid who's in the Congress and say, "I like the president; he called me on my birthday; don't mess with him, OK?"Oh, well, I went into politics because my mother was, I like to say, a talk show pioneer. The person on the radio would say something and then she would yell at the radio.And so I learned about opinions. And I was - I really wanted at one point to be a lawyer, and I'd go into the courthouse as a young guy and I would listen to them debate. That's what I thought I was going to do. But when I went to Ohio State - I don't know if you know this story, I'll tell you very quickly - I - it had 48,000 students, and something upset me. So I decided I needed to go and see the president of the university. My Uncle Emil (ph) told me always start at the top.I couldn't get in, then I finally did. And I went in to see the president. And I lodged my complaint. And I looked at him and I said, "Sir, I've been in school about a month and I'm undecided. And looking at the furniture, the lighting, the carpeting - beautiful - maybe this is the job for me. What exactly do you do?"And he tells me his academic and fundraising responsibility. And he says, "Tomorrow, I'm going to fly down to Washington and have a meeting with President Nixon." An I said, "Well, Sir, I have a number of things I would like to tell him also. Could I go with you?" And he said, "No." And I said, "Well, if I write a letter, would you give it to the president?" Which he did.And then I went down to may mailbox a couple of, you know, weeks later, and there's a letter from the White House. And I opened it up, I go upstairs, I call my mom. I sai "Mom, I'm going to need an airline ticket; the president of the United States would like to have a meeting with me in the Oval Office." And my mother is shouting, "Honeypick up the phone; there's something wrong with Johnny." So, I fly down. I get through the security. I'm sitting right at the Oval Office. And a guy walks up to me and he says, "Young man, you're going to get five minutes alone wit the president of the United States. What do you think? Pretty cool?" Yeah, I'll tell you what I'm thinking: new jacket, new shirt, new tie, new pants. I didn't come here for five lousy minutes.So they opened up the door. I went in. The good news is I spent 20 minutes alone as an 18-year-old first quarter freshman with the president of the United States. The bad news is I spent 18 years in Congress. And if you add up all the time I spent in the Oval Office, I peaked out at the age of 18.Thank God they don't have it, because you can see the haircut, OK?Well, you know, I was just talking back stage. You know, we have this Fall Out Boy is one of them. You know, I like Lincoln Park and 21 Pilots, you know, "Stressed Out." We play that our on our bus, but we're not stressed out. And, you know, they actually went to my kids' school. And I'm a pretty much alternative and modern. My favorite concert was The Wall. You know, I'm the one that said I'm going to get Pink Floyd back together again.Yeah, with Roger Waters and David Gilmour. Now, somebody said, you know, well, there's others that are dead. I said, hey, it's Gilmour and Waters. I mean, come on. And if you have ever seen The Wall best concert ever, Roger Waters and The Wall. If it comes back, go see it.Well, it changed my whole life. And the only thing I will say about this is for those that are watching, Anderson, it was - when I was a little boy, I was afraid my mom and dad wouldn't come one night, because my dad would pick my mother up late at night on a very bad road. And then at the age of 35, I got a phone call that they wouldn't be able to get home. And you know where they were, they were at the Burger King because they got the second cup of coffee for free. That's the way the mailmanand Mrs. Kasich lived.And I went into a black hole with just a little pin prick of light, Anderson. And others who are here tonight have had that experience. But I had people come to me. I don't care - you know, you don't have to agree with me or like it or whatever, but it's really where I found the Lord. And I've spent 29 years of my life working on that, and I'm here to tell people that - and look, life is - it's so rocky, it's so fragile.
We have to build our homes - our lives, our homes on solid granite, not on sand. And I have found that even though the pain still comes, there's where I have to go. And as result of my parents' accident, it's allowed me to hug that boy, and I whispered some things to him. Or to go places with military families that lose a loved one; I meet with them.I'm not - look, I'm not that great a guy, OK? I'm just doing the best I can. And sometimes I fail. But I believe there's a life yet to come, and I just happen to believe that I'm going to look up here and I'm going to do my best to be the best person I can do. And the campaign's actually got me to slow down a little bit, which has been great. And I've got a great family, great daughters, Emma and Reese (ph). And I'm - look, it's just all been a miracle to me, and I would really appreciate your consideration onSaturday, and give me a chance to get to the rest of the country, OK? I need your help. Thank you, Anderson. 
Thank you for this.
