Well, let me say, from protecting the people of Florida from imminent domain abuse, to bringing accountability to the V.A., to the Girls Count Act, to sanctioning groups, I'm proud of my service in the United States Senate and before that, in the Florida legislature.I will say, if politics becomes and the presidency becomes about electing people who have been Congress or in the Senate the longest, we should all rally around Joe Biden. He's been around 1,000 years. He's passed hundreds of bills and I don't think any of us believe Joe Biden should be president of the United States.And let's dispel once and for all with this fiction that Barack Obama doesn't know what he's doing. He knows exactly what he's doing. Barack Obama is undertaking a systematic effort to change this country, to make America more like the rest of the world.That's why he passed Obamacare and the stimulus and Dodd-Frank and the deal with Iran. It is a systematic effort to change America. When I'm president of the United States, we are going to re-embrace all the things that made America the greatest nation in the world and we are going to leave our children with what they deserve: the single greatest nation in the history of the world.
If I may respond to that.
Well, I think the experience is not just what you did, but how it worked out. Under Chris Christie's governorship of New Jersey, they've been downgraded nine times in their credit rating. This country already has a debt problem, we don't need to add to it by electing someone who has experience at running up and destroying the credit rating of his state.But I would add this. Let's dispel with this fiction that Barack Obama doesn't know what he's doing. He knows exactly what he's doing. He is trying to change this country. He wants America to become more like the rest of the world. We don't want to be like the rest of the world, we want to be the United States of America. And when I'm elected president, this will become once again, the single greatest nation in the history of the world, not the disaster Barack Obama has imposed upon us.Chris -- Chris, your state got hit by a massive snowstorm two weeks ago. You didn't even want to go back. They had to shame you into going back. And then you stayed there for 36 hours and then he left and came back to campaign. Those are the facts.Here's the bottom line. This notion that Barack Obama doesn't know what he's doing is just not true. He knows exactly what he's doing.Well, that's the -- that's the reason why this campaign is so important. Because I think this notion -- I think this is an important point. We have to understand what we're going through here. We are not facing a president that doesn't know what he's doing. He knows what he is doing. That's why he's done the things he's done.That's why we have a president that passed Obamacare and the stimulus. All this damage that he's done to America is deliberate. This is a president that's trying to redefine this country. That's why this election is truly a referendum on our identity as a nation, as a people. Our future is at stake.This election is not about the past. It is about what kind of country this is going to be in the 21st century, and if we elect someone like Barack Obama, a Hillary Clinton, a Bernie Sanders or anyone like that, our children are going to be the first Americans to inherit a diminishes country. That will not happen if I'm elected.
Chris, you didn't want to go back. You didn't want to go back.
You didn't want to go back, Chris.Chris, everybody -- you said you weren't going to go back. He told everyone he wasn't going to go back. They had to shame him into going back. And when he decided to go back, he criticized the young lady, saying, what am I supposed to do, go back with a mop and clean up the flooding?
It's your record, it's not a talking point...
But Martha, just -- Martha, just to clarify on that point, because he's right, and one more thing to point -- it is standard procedure of the United States to shoot down those missiles once launched if they pose a threat to civilians, land and ships.
Well -- no, I understand. And not -- but -- but I think it's important to note that it is -- and Senator Cruz, I think, was alluding to this, as well -- it is the standard procedure of the United States, if those missiles pose a threat to land, civilians, our allies or any of our assets, to shoot down that missile in mid-flight.I understand your question was about a preemptive strike, but my point is that there is in place now contingencies to avoid any sort of that strike from going errant and destroying any -- any assets of the United States, or implicating or hurting any of our allies or any of our assets in the region.Yeah. I have a -- I got mentioned, can I respond?
Here's the broader point, as well, and then I think it touches on what Donald just mentioned. Barack Obama views America as this arrogant global power that needed to be cut down to size. OK?This is a president that views this country as a country that's been too powerful in the world and we create problems around the world.For example, it's one of the reasons why he had betrayed Israel, because he believes that if we create separation from Israel, it will help our relations in the Islamic world. The same is happening in the Asia-Pacific region with accommodations to North Korea. North Korean should be back on that list of terrorist nations, as an example.And Donald's absolutely right. China does have a lot of influence over North Korea and he should be leveraging our relationship with the Chinese to ensure that North Korea no longer has access to the resources that have allowed them -- a country that has no economy to develop long range missiles already capable of reaching the west coast of the United States potentially.Here's the bottom line. We can't get that legislation passed. The American people will not support doing anything about people that are in this country illegally until the law is enforced first, and you prove it to them.This has been abundantly clear. Every effort over the last ten years to do those comprehensively has failed. And it has failed because the American people have zero trust that the federal government will enforce our laws.And that's why since then, I have said repeatedly, if you are serious about immigration reform, then the key that unlocks the door to being able to do that is not just to pass a law that says it is going to enforce the law, but to actually do it. To hire the 20,000 new border agents, to finish the fencing and walls, to put in place mandatory e- verify, to put in place an entry-exit tracking system to prevent visa overstays.And once that is in place and that's working, I believe the American people will support a very reasonable, but responsible approach to people that have been here a long time, who are not dangerous criminals, who pay taxes and pay fines for what they did.But until then, none of that is going to be possible.
Well, the legislation passed, but it has no support. In essence, it couldn't pass in the House, it will never pass in the United States until we secure the border, and it is not the way we're going to do when I'm president.When I'm president, we are going to enforce the law first, prove to people that illegal immigration is under control. And then we'll see what the American people are willing to support when it comes to people that are not criminals, who have been in the this country for a long time and who otherwise would like to stay.
Leadership is ultimately about solving the problem. And the approach that was tried and has been tried now repeatedly over ten years to do this comprehensively, all at once in a massive piece of legislation has no chance of passage.It is not leadership to continue to try something that has no chance of happening. I want to make progress on this issue. It has been discussed now for 30 years and nothing ever happens.And I am telling you that the only way forward on this issue that has any chance of happening, meaning gaining the support of the American people, you cannot do this without the support of the American people, is an approach that begins by proving that once and for all, illegal immigration is under control.
Good evening.
Well, I think conservatism is about three things and Donald touched on one of them, but it's about three things. The first is conservatism is about limited government, especially at the federal level. The federal government is a limited government, limited by the Constitution, which delineates its powers. If it's not in the Constitution, it does not belong to the federal government. It belongs to states, local communities and the private sector.It's about free enterprise, which is an economic model that allows everyone to rise without pulling anyone down. The reason why free enterprise is the greatest economic model in the history of the world is because it's the only economic model where you can make poor people richer without making rich people poor.And it's about a strong national defense. It's about believing, unlike Barack Obama, that the world is a safer and a better place when America is the strongest military and the strongest nation on this planet. That's conservatism.Yeah.
OK, good, then I'll get to it.
Well, no, sorry. Let me respond to that question.
Well, here's the response. I think anyone who believes that Barack Obama isn't doing what he's doing on purpose doesn't understand what we're dealing with here, OK? This is a president -- this is a president who is trying to change this country. When he talked about change, he wasn't talking about dealing with our problems.Obamacare was not an accident. The undermining of the Second Amendment is not an accident. The gutting of our military is not an accident. The undermining of America on the global stage is not an accident. Barack Obama is, indeed, trying to redefine this country. We better understand what we're dealing with here, because that's what Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders want to double down on if they are elected. Yeah.
I don't know of any problem in America that's going to be fixed with a tax increase. We have an economy today, an economy today that is not creating jobs that pay enough.And one of the reasons why is because we have one of the most expensive business tax rates on the planet. Our combined business rate puts us among the highest in the industrialized world. And then on top of that, we are the only one that has a worldwide system of taxation, where an American company who makes money abroad has to pay taxes where they made the money and then taxes a second time when they bring it back.The combination of these two things has stranded over $2 trillion, the equivalent of the size of the Russian economy, $2 trillion of American corporate money stranded overseas, combined with all of these inversions of companies leaving us.The solution to the problems we have today are not a tax increase. It is to lower our taxes on both people and on companies, so we can make America globally competitive again.Well, first, we need to understand who they are. ISIS is not just a jihadist group, they're an apocalyptic group. They want to trigger a showdown in a city named Tibet between the west and themselves which they believe will trigger the arrival of their messianic figure.And I'm not saying that's what's going to happen. The reason why it's important to understand that is because these are not groups that are just going to go away on their own. They are going to have to be defeated. And I believe they need to be defeated on the ground, by a ground force, made up primarily of Sunni Arabs.It will take Sunni Arabs to reject them ideologically and defeat them militarily. That will require a coalition of Iraqis and Syrians, that are also Sunnis, but it will also require the cooperation of Jordanians, Egyptians. We should ask more of the Saudis.That will need to be backed up with more U.S. special operation forces alongside them. And it will have to be backed up with increased air strikes. And we are going to have to strike them, not just in Iraq and in Syria, but in every other part of the world where they have now created hubs of operation. They have affiliates in over a dozen countries across this planet. They have a sophisticated network of radicalizing people here in the homeland and around the world.But it all begins by taking away their their safe operating spaces with a ground force that a U.S.-led coalition takes on.
Because they currently occupy Sunni cities and villages. Sunni cities and villages can only truly be liberated and held by Sunnis themselves. If they are held by Shias it will trigger sectarian violence. The Kurds are incredible fighters and they will liberate the Kurdish areas, but Kurds can not and do not want to liberate and hold Sunni villages and towns.
It will take Sunni fighters themselves in that region to take those villages and cities, and then to hold them and avoid the sort of sectarian violence that follows in the past.And why that is important is because if Sunnis are not able to govern themselves in these areas, you are going to have a successor group to ISIS. ISIS is a successor group of Al Qaida. In fact, they broke away from Al Qaida, because as horrible as Al Qaida is, ISIS thought Al Qaida was not radical enough. This is who we're dealing with, and they have more money than Al Qaida ever had.Well, the problem with the Sunni forces in the region is they don't trust this administration. This administration cut a deal with their mortal enemies, the Shia, in Iran. It poisoned the well with these countries. It makes it very difficult to cooperate with them as a result.They also, by the way, understand what real U.S. air power looks like. They saw the Iraq war. They saw, up close, also Afghanistan. They know what air power looks like when the United States is committed to the cause. And they see the airstrikes that are being conducted now, and they say to themselves, that's not real (ph) commitment. We know what real commitment looks like.The -- the Jordanian king was in Washington three weeks ago. He told everyone who would listen that they have begged for permission from the coalition to target caravans. And the coalition -- meaning U.S. leadership on the ground would not allow them to proceed with those airstrikes.
Well, when people talk about interrogating terrorists, they're acting like this is some sort of law enforcement function. Law enforcement is about gathering evidence to take someone to trial, and convict them. Anti-terrorism is about finding out information to prevent a future attack so the same tactics do not apply.And, it is true, we should not be discussing in a wide spread way the exact tactics that we're going to use because that allows terrorist to know to practice how to evade us.But, here's the bigger problem with all this, we're not interrogating anybody right now. Guantanamo's being emptied by this president. We should be putting people into Guantanamo, not emptying it out, and we shouldn't be releasing these killers who are rejoining the battlefield against the United States.I think it's already happening. Look at the turnout in Iowa. A historic number of people came out and voted in those caucuses. There are saying the same thing is going to happen here in New Hampshire. Look at the rallies that every single person on this stage is having. Much higher numbers than you used to see in the past and here is why.Because people are starting to understand, very clearly, that this election is going to be a turning point. That 2016 is not just a choice between Republican or Democrat. It is a referendum on our identity as a nation and as a people.So here is what Hillary Clinton needs to understand. We're going to have our primary, we're going to have our debates -- which by the way, are twice as many as the Democrats have been willing to have themselves. But we're going to bring this party together and we are going to defeat Hillary Clinton, because she is unqualified to be the president of the United States of America.She put classified information on her computer because she thinks she's above the law and anyone who lies to the families of people who have lost their loved ones in the service of our country like she did in Benghazi, can never be the commander-in-chief of the United States of America.I would. But that's not -- the issue -- my problem with what he did is he continues to put out this fiction that there's widespread systematic discrimination against Muslim Americans.First of all, let's recognize this. If you go to a national cemetery in this country, you will see stars of Davids and crosses, but you see crescent moons. There are brave men and women who happen to be Muslim Americans who are serving this country in uniform and who have died in the service of this country. And we recognize that and we honor that. But by the same token, we face a very significant threat of home grown violent extremism.We need to have strong, positive relationships in the Islamic communities in this country so they will identify and report this activity, especially mosques, for example, that are participating not just in hate speech, but inciting violence and taking acts against us.And I do believe it is important also to recognize, you want to talk about religious discrimination in America. Well, I don't think Barack Obama is being sued by any Islamic groups, but he is being sued by the Little Sisters of the Poor. We are facing in this country Christian groups and groups that hold traditional values who feel and in fact are being discriminated against by the laws of this country that try to force them to vie to violate their conscience.First, let me say there are already women today serving in roles that are like combat. That, in fact, whose lives are in very serious danger, and so I have no problem whatsoever with people of either gender serving in combat so long as the minimum requirements necessary to do the job are not compromised. But, I support that, and obviously now that that is the case I do believe that Selective Service should be opened up for both men and women in case a Draft is ever instituted.I think the more fundamental challenge we're now facing is what's happening to the U.S. military -- I've said this many times, and I think it's important to start paying attention to this. Our Air Force is about to be the smallest it's been in 100 years. I'm sorry, in our history. Our Army is set to be smaller than it's been since the second World War, and our Navy is about to be the smallest than it's been in 100 years.I think we need to begin to refocus on rebuilding our military because every time we have cut our military in the history of this country we have had to come back later and rebuild it, and it costs more, and it's a lot more chaotic and dangerous. When I'm president, we are rebuilding the U.S. military.Well, my brother's a veteran. We're very proud of him in our family. He served as a green beret in the 7th Special Forces from 1968 through 1971. And as part of his training, he jumped out of an airplane and he lost his two front teeth.And for years, he's had to go to get these dental claims. And every times he goes to get one of these dental claims filled, the V.A. asks him, "well, how do we know you lost your teeth in the Army?" And he says, "well, it's the only time I ever jumped out of a plane."But he's had to fight through this process, and I've watched it firsthand. That's why I'm proud that I worked in a bipartisan way. We passed the V.A. Accountability bill that, for the first time, allows us to fire -- allows the V.A. secretary to fire someone who's not doing a good job, who's a senior executive.And the governor's right. They've only fired three people up to now. More people will be fired if I'm president. But the portability part of it is incredibly important.
Veterans should be able to take their V.A. benefits to any hospital or any doctor they want to go to. When I am president of the United States, veterans will be able to take their benefits to any hospital or doctor that they choose.Well, first of all, I don't believe that believing in traditional marriage the way I do makes you a bigot or a hater. It means that you believe that this institution that's been around for millenial is an important cornerstone of society. I respect people that believe differently. But I believe deeply, that marriage should be between one man and one woman.
On the issue of life, to me, the issue of life is not a political issue. It's a human rights issue and it's a difficult issue, because it puts in conflict two competing rights. On the one hand is the right of a woman to choose what to do with her body which is a real right.And on the other hand is the right of an unborn human child to live. And they're in conflict. And as a policy maker, I must choose which one of these two sides takes precedence. And I have chosen to err on the side of life.Here's what I find outrageous. There has been five Democratic debates. The media has not asked them a single question on abortion and on abortion, the Democrats are extremists. Why doesn't the media ask Hillary Clinton why she believes that all abortion should be legal, even on the due date of that unborn child.Why don't they ask Hillary Clinton why she believe that partial- birth abortion, which is a gruesome procedure that has been outlawed in this country, she thinks that's a fundamental right. They are the extremists when it comes to the issue of abortion and I can't wait to expose them in a general election.I do support protection for the life of the mother because I'm pro-life. I just believe deeply that all human life is worthy of protection of our laws. If I'm president and there's a bill that's passed that saves lives but it has exceptions, I'll sign it.But I do believe deeply that all human life is worthy of the protection of laws. I've already said, for me, the issue of life is not a political issue and I want to be frank. I would rather lose an election than be wrong on the issue of life.Well, I was going for Peyton Manning, but now I'm rooting for Carolina.
Thank you. You know, this week I had the great pleasure of having my kids join me on the campaign trail. I hadn't' seen them in a while, and it was great to have them alongside me, but the most important part of it is that it once again reminded me of what's at stake.Here in New Hampshire in less than 72 hours, we are literally deciding what kind of country we will be like when they are my age. What kind of country they will be able to raise their families in. And, that's why I'm asking you for your vote. You vote for me, and we will unite this party, we will grow the conservative movement, we will defeat Hillary Clinton, and we will leave our children what our parents left us. The single greatest nation in the history of all mankind.Thank you.
Chris, let's begin by being clear what this campaign is about. It's not about Donald Trump. He's an entertaining guy. He's the greatest show on earth. This campaign is about the greatest country in the world and a president who has systematically destroyed many of the things that made America special.You see, we usually elect presidents in America that want to change the things that are wrong in America. Barack Obama wants to change America. Barack Obama wants America to be more like the rest of the world. We don't want to be like the rest of the world. We want to be the United States of America.That is why Hillary Clinton cannot win this election. Hillary Clinton this week said Barack Obama would make a great Supreme Court justice. The guy who systematically and habitually violates the constitution on the Supreme Court? I don't think so. If I'm our nominee, I will unite this party and we'll defeat Hillary Clinton and we will turn this country around once and for all, after seven years of the disaster that is Barack Obama.
I think, you know, Rand and I have some significant issues on policy, but I respect Rand. He believes everything he stands for.
I do respect Rand.But I want to be frank about what I stand for. I believe the world is a safer and a better place when America is the strongest power in the world. And I believe only with a strong America will we defeat this radical group, this apocalyptic group called ISIS.That's why when I'm president we are going to rebuild our intelligence capabilities. And they're going to tell us where the terrorists are. And a rebuilt U.S. military is going to destroy these terrorists.
And if we capture any of these ISIS killers alive, they are going to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and we're going to find out everything they know, because when I'm president, unlike Barack Obama, we will keep this country safe.Well, again, I mean, obviously, as already has been pointed out, the only budget that Ted has ever voted for is a budget that Rand Paul sponsored that brags about cutting defense spending. And I think that's a bad idea for the following reason.ISIS is the most dangerous jihadist group in the history of mankind. ISIS is now found in affiliates in over a dozen countries. ISIS is a group that burns people alive in cages; that sells off little girls as brides. ISIS is a group that wants to trigger an apocalyptic showdown in the city of Dabiq -- not the city of Dubuque; I mis-said -- mis-said that wrong once time -- the city of Dabiq in Syria. They want to trigger an apocalyptic Armageddon showdown.
This group needs to be confronted and defeated. They are not going to go away on their own. They're not going to turn into stockbrokers overnight or open up a chain of car washes. They need to be defeated militarily, and that will take overwhelming U.S. force.Today, we are on pace to have the smallest Army since the end of World War II, the smallest Navy in 100 years, the smallest Air Force in our history. You cannot destroy ISIS with a military that's being diminished. When I'm president, we are rebuilding the U.S. military because the world is a safer and a better place when America is the strongest military in the world.
It was against Assad. And John Kerry described it as attacks that would be unbelievably small.I don't think the United States should be engaged in symbolic military activity. So it was not against ISIS, it was against -- it was against Assad.I think the United States military is operating under rules of engagement that are too strict and that do not allow us to pursue victory. When I'm president, that will change.
Megyn, that's the problem. Radical Muslims and radical Islam is not just hate talk. It's hate action. They blow people up. Look what they did in San Bernardino.Look at the attack they inspired in Philadelphia, that the White House still refuses to link to terror, where a guy basically shot a police officer three times.He told the police, "I did it because I was inspired by ISIS," and to this day, the White House still refuses to acknowledge it had anything to do with terror.Look, the threat we face from ISIS is unprecedented. There has never been a jihadist group like this. They have affiliates in over a dozen countries now.They are the best funded radical jihadist group in the history of the world, and they have shown a sophisticated understanding of the laws of other countries on how to insert fighters into places, and they are actively plotting to attack us here at home and around the world.We must keep America safe from this threat. And yes, when I am president of the United States, if there is some place in this country where radical jihadists are planning to attack the United States, we will go after them wherever they are, and if we capture them alive, they are going to Guantanamo.
Might I respond?
The first thing -- I don't know of anyone who's not in favor of fully vetting people that are trying to come into this country, other than perhaps Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. I think we all support that. Rand's amendment was not the right way to do it.I do believe that people who are trying to come to the United States -- this country has a right to know who they are and why they are coming. And that's why I've been clear, when I am the president of the United States of America, we don't know who you are, and we don't know why you're trying to come to the United States, you are not going to get in, because the radical threat that we now face from ISIS is extraordinary and unprecedented and when I'm president, we are keeping ISIS out of America.
Well, Bret, first that's not entirely the story. At the time, the liberal governor of Florida, who claimed he was a Republican -- his name was Charlie Crist -- he wanted to impose cap-and-trade on Florida. And I opposed it. I was the first person out of the box that opposed him on it.And then we saw that the leading candidates for president at the time, both the Republican and the Democrats, all supported it. And what we said is, if they're going to impose this on us, we better prepare to protect the state from it. But I have never supported cap- and-trade and I never thought it was a good idea. And I was clear about that at the time.And I do not believe it's a good idea now. I do not believe that we have to destroy our economy in order to protect our environment. And especially what these programs are asking us to pass that will do nothing to help the environment, but will be devastating for our economy.When I am president of the United States of America, there will never be any cap-and-trade in the United States.Never support. Never have and never will support any effort to grant blanket legalization amnesty to folks who have entered, or stayed in this country illegally.
First of all, earned path to citizenship is basically code for amnesty. It's what they call it. And, the reality of it is this, it is unfair to the people that have legally entered this country to create an alternative for individuals who entered illegally, and knowingly did so.You cannot grant amnesty. If the American people see us granting amnesty they will never again believe in legal immigration. They will never again support it, and that's wrong for our country, bad for our future.No, because if you look at the quote, and it's very specific. And, it says blanket amnesty, I do not support blanket amnesty.
I do not support amnesty...
No, I said I do not support blanket amnesty...
It absolutely has been, and at the time in the context of that was in 2009, and 2010, where the last effort for legalization was an effort done in the Senate. It was an effort led by several people that provided almost an instant path with very little obstacles moving forward.
What I've always said is that this issue does need to be solved. They've been talking about this issue for 30 years, and nothing ever happens. And, I'm going to tell you exactly how we're going to deal with it when I am president.Number one, we're going to keep ISIS out of America. If we don't know who you are, or why you're coming, you will not get into the United States.
Number two, we're going to enforce our immigration laws. I am the son and grandson of immigrants. And I know that securing our borders is not anti-immigrant and we will do it.We'll hire 20,000 new border agents instead of 20,000 new IRS agents. We will finish the 700 miles of fencing and walls our nation needs. We'll have mandatory E-verify, a mandatory entry/exit tracking system and until all of that is in place and all of that is working and we can prove to the people of this country that illegal immigration is under control, nothing else is going to happen.We are not going to round up and deport 12 million people, but we're not going to hand out citizenship cards, either. There will be a process. We will see what the American people are willing to support. But it will not be unconstitutional executive orders like the ones Barack Obama has forced on us.May I respond?
t's interesting that Jeb mentions the book. That's the book where you changed your position on immigration because you used to support a path to citizenship.You wrote a book where you changed your position from a path of citizenship to a path of legalization. And the bottom line is this, we are not going to be able to do anything on this issue until we first bring illegal immigration under control. The American people have been told for 30 years they're going to enforce the border, they're going to build a wall and it never gets built and it never happens.It is very clear there will be no progress on this issue in any way, shape or form, until you prove to the people of this country that illegal immigration is under control. And when I'm president, we are going to bring it under control once and for all after 30 years of talking about it.There's not going to be consensus on this issue until we enforce our immigration laws. That is abundantly clear. You're not going to be able to ram down the throat of the American people your approach. The only way we're are going to be able to move forward after two migratory crises with minor, after two unconstitutional executive orders, the only way forward on this issue is to first bring illegal immigration under control. And until that happens there's not going to be consensus on this issue.I was mentioned on this -- in this answer, and so I'm going to respond this way.This is the lie that Ted's campaign is built on, and Rand touched upon it -- that he's the most conservative guy, and everyone else is a -- you know, everyone else is a rhino.The truth is, Ted, throughout this campaign, you've been willing to say or do anything in order to get votes. Ted, you worked for George W. Bush's campaign. You -- you -- you helped design George W. Bush's -- you helped design George W. Bush's immigration policy. And then, when you got to the Senate, you did an interview with CBS News -- I (ph) wasn't even part of the video -- where you said, on the issue of people that are here illegally, "we can reach a compromise."And then in the committee, you said, "I want to bring people out of the shadows."Now you want to trump Trump on immigration. But you can't -- we're not gonna beat Hillary Clinton with someone who's willing to say or do anything to win an election.that's the false choice in this whole debate about immigration. Of course, we're going to be a nation of immigrants. By the way, no nation on earth is more generous than America is. Every single year close to a million people emigrate to the United States legally. There's no nation on earth that comes close to that number.I think the only argument is are we a sovereign country, are we not allowed to choose who comes in, when they come in and how they come in? And that's not what's happening now.I think the other problem is we have a legal immigration system that's outdated, it's primarily based on whether you have family members living here. In the 21st century, it has to be more of a merit-based system, and that is why our legal immigration system is in need of modernization. And we will always celebrate legal immigration like Dulce's great story.
Well, I believe, and I know that if Iowa helps make me the Republican nominee, I will defeat Hillary Clinton. Hillary doesn't want to run against me, but I cannot wait to run against her. And I cannot wait to earn the opportunity to do it because she cannot be the president of the United States.She wants to put Barack Obama on the Supreme Court of the United States of America. She said that here in Iowa just two days ago. That would be a disaster for this country.So I hope and pray and cannot wait until this state and others give me an opportunity to serve this party as its nominee because I will defeat Hillary Clinton.Well, let me be clear about one thing, there's only one savior and it's not me. It's Jesus Christ who came down to earth and died for our sins.
And so -- and I've always made that clear about that cover story.As far as the polls are concerned, Iowa, on Monday night you're going to go to a caucus site and you'll be the first Americans that vote in this election. You will be the first Americans that get to answer the fundamental question, what comes next for this country after seven disastrous years of Barack Obama?And let me tell you what the answer better not be. It better not be Bernie Sanders. Bernie Sanders is a socialist. I think Bernie Sanders is good candidate for president of Sweden.We don't want to be Sweden. We want to be the United States of America.
And Hillary Clinton, Hillary Clinton is disqualified from being the commander-in-chief of the United States. In fact, one of her first acts as president may very well be to pardon herself because Hillary Clinton stored classified information on her private server. And Hillary Clinton lied to the families of those four brave Americans who lost their life in Benghazi. And anyone who lies to the families of Americans who have died in the service of this country can never be commander-in-chief of the United States.Yeah, I would encourage people to go on my website, marcorubio.com, and we'll put all the facts up there so people can see it for themselves. But you've just asked a very fundamental question about the role of faith in our country. And I think this is an important question. I think if you do not understand that our Judeo-Christian values are one of the reasons why America is such a special country, you don't understand our history. You see, why are we one of the most generous people in the world -- no, the most generous people in the world? Why do Americans contribute millions of dollars to charity?It is not because of the tax writeoff. It is because in this nation, we are influenced by Judeo-Christian values that teach us to care for the less fortunate, to reach out to the needy, to love our neighbor. This is what's made our nation so special.And you should hope that our next president is someone that is influence by their faith. Because if your faith causes you to care for the less fortunate, it is something you want to see in your public figures. And when I'm president, I can tell you this, my faith will not just influence the way I'll govern as president, it will influence the way I live my life.Because in the end, my goal is not simply to live on this earth for 80 years, but to live an eternity with my creator. And I will always allow my faith to influence everything I do.Well, let me first describe Iran because they're not just a normal nation state. And we have no quarrel with the Iranian people. But the Iranian leader, their supreme leader is a radical Shia cleric who has an apocalyptic vision of the future.
He views himself not simply as the leader of Iran, but as the leader of all Muslims -- all Shia Muslims on the planet. And they have a desire not simply to conquer the Middle East and to become the dominant power in that region, but ultimately to be able to hold America hostage.That is why they're building an -- right now, developing long- range missiles capable of reaching the United States, and that is why there's going -- they're going to use those $100 billion to expand their conventional capabilities and to one day buy or build a nuclear weapon.We will -- when I am president of the United States, on my first day in office, we are canceling the deal with Iran, and nations will have to make a choice. They can do business with Iran, or they can do business with America, and I am very confident they're going to choose America before they choose the Iranian economy.
 The bible commands us to let our light shine on the world. For over 200 years, America's light has been shining on the world and the world has never been the same again. But now, that light is dimming a little, after seven years of Barack Obama. And that's why Monday night, what will happen here in Iowa is so important.I'm asking you for your vote. Caucus for me on Monday night because if I am your nominee, I will unite this party and I will defeat Hillary Clinton and when I'm president, America's light will shine again and the 21 century will be a new American century.
Yeah, I would go, first of all, one step further in this description of Hillary Clinton. She wouldn't just be a disaster, Hillary Clinton is disqualified from being commander in chief of the United States.
Someone who cannot handle intelligence information appropriately cannot be commander in chief and someone who lies to the families of those four victims in Benghazi can never be president of the United States. Ever. On the issue of Barack Obama, Barack Obama does not believe that America is a great global power. Barack Obama believes that America is a arrogant global power that needs to be cut down to size. And that's how you get a foreign policy where we cut deals with our enemies like Iran and we betray our allies like Israel and we gut our military and we go around the world like he has done on 10 separate occasions and apologized for America.He doesn't understand the threat in ISIS. He consistently underestimates it but I do not. There is a war against ISIS, not just against ISIS but against radical jihadists terrorists, and it is a war that they win or we win.When I'm president of the United States, we are going to win this war on ISIS. The most powerful intelligence agency in the world is going to tell us where we are, the most powerful military in the world is going to destroy them. And if we capture any of them alive, they are getting a one-way ticket to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and we are going to find out everything they know.I was invoked in that question, so let me just say -- in that answer -- let me say, the real question here, I hate to interrupt this episode of Court TV.
But the real -- but I think we have to get back to what this election has to be about. OK? Listen, we -- this is the greatest country in the history of mankind. But in 2008, we elected a president that didn't want to fix America. He wants to change America. We elected a president that doesn't believe in the Constitution. He undermines it. We elected a president that is weakening America on the global stage. We elected a president that doesn't believe in the free enterprise system.This election has to be about reversing all of that damage. That's why I'm running for office because when I become president of the United States, on my first day in office we are going to repeal every single one of his unconstitutional executive orders. When I'm president of the United States we are getting rid of Obamacare and we are rebuilding our military. And when I'm president, we're not just going to have a president that gives a State of the Union and says America is the greatest country in the world. When I'm president, we're going to have a president that acts like it.
You know, as I said already twice in this debate, we have a very serious problem in this country.
Well, I am going to answer your question, Neil. He is -- this president is undermining the constitutional basis of this government. This president is undermining our military. He is undermining our standing in the world. I like Chris Christie, but we can not afford to have a president of the United States that supports Common Core.
We can not afford to have a president of the United States that supports gun control. This president, this president is more interested in funding -- less interested in funding the military, than he is in funding planned -- he's more interested in funding Planned Parenthood than he is in funding the military.Chris Christie wrote a check to Planned Parenthood. All I'm saying is our next president has to be someone that undoes the damage Barack Obama has done to this country. It can not be someone that agrees with his agenda.Because the damage he has done to America is extraordinary. Let me tell you, if we don't get this election right, there may be no turning back for America. We're on the verge of being the first generation of Americans that leave our children worse off than ourselves.So I just truly, with all my heart belief, I like everybody on the stage. No one is a socialist. No one here is under FBI investigation. So we have a good group of people.
Unfortunately, Governor Christie has endorsed many of the ideas that Barack Obama supports, whether it is Common Core or gun control or the appointment of Sonia Sotomayor or the donation he made to Planned Parenthood. Our next president, and our Republican nominee can not be someone who supports those positions.That sounds like people are afraid the president's going to take their guns away.
Look, the Second Amendment is not an option. It is not a suggestion. It is a constitutional right of every American to be able to protect themselves and their families. I am convinced that if this president could confiscate every gun in America, he would. I am convinced that this president, if he could get rid of the Second Amendment, he would. I am convinced because I see how he works with his attorney general, not to defend the Second Amendment, but to figure out ways to undermine it.I have seen him appoint people to our courts not to defend the Second Amendment, but to figure out ways to undermine it.Here's my second problem. None of these instances that the president points to as the reason why he's doing these things would have been preventive. You know why? Because criminals don't buy their guns from a gun show. They don't buy their guns from a collector. And they don't buy their guns from a gun store. They get -- they steal them. They get them on the black market.And let me tell you, ISIS and terrorists do not get their guns from a gun show. If there's an act of violence in America, his immediate answer before he even knows the facts is gun control. Here's a fact. We are in a war against ISIS. They are trying to attack us here in America. They attacked us in Philadelphia last week. They attacked us in San Bernardino two weeks ago. And the last line standing between them and our families might be us and a gun.When I'm president of the United States, we are defending the Second Amendment, not undermining it the way Barack Obama does.About every two weeks, he holds a press conference talking about how he can't wait to restrict people's access to guns. 
I'll give you a fact. Well, let me tell you this. Do you remember when he ran for president of the United States, and he was a candidate, and he went and said, "These Americans with traditional values, they are bitter people, and they cling to their guns and to their religion." That tells you right away where he was headed on all of this.This president every chance he has ever gotten has tried to undermine the Second Amendment. He doesn't meet -- here's the difference. When he meets with the attorney general in the White House, it's not "how can we protect the Second Amendment rights of Americans." It's "give me options on how I can make it harder for law-abiding people to buy guns." That will never happen when I am president of the United States.Well, first of all, let's understand why we are even having this debate and why Donald tapped in to some of that anger that's out there about this whole issue. Because this president has consistently underestimated the threat of ISIS.If you listen to the State of the Union the other night, he described them as a bunch of guys with long beards on the back of a pickup truck. They are much more than that. This is a group of people that enslaves women and sells them, sells them as brides.This is a group of people that burns people in cages, that is conducting genocide against Christians and Yazidis and others in the region. This is not some small scale group.They are radicalizing people in the United States, they are conducting attacks around the world. So you know what needs to happen, it's a very simple equation, and it's going to happen when I'm president. If we do not know who you are, and we do not know why you are coming when I am president, you are not getting into the United States of America.
But on this point, if I may add something on this point. We are all frustrated with what China is doing. I think we need to be very careful with tariffs, and here's why.China doesn't pay the tariff, the buyer pays the tariff. If you send a tie or a shirt made in China into the United States and an American goes to buy it at the store and there's a tariff on it, it gets passed on in the price to price to the consumer.So I think the better approach, the best thing we can do to protect ourselves against China economically is to make our economy stronger, which means reversing course from all the damage Barack Obama is doing to this economy.It begins with tax reform. Let's not have the most expensive business tax rate in the world. Let's allow companies to immediately expense.It continues with regulatory reform. Regulations in this country are out of control, especially the Employment Prevention Agency, the EPA, and all of the rules they continue to impose on our economy and hurting us.How about Obamacare, a certified job killer? It needs to be repealed and replaced. And we need to bring our debt under control, make our economy stronger. That is the way to deal with China at the end of the day.Well, first let me address the tax issue because it's related to the entitlement issue and I want to thank you for holding a substantive debates where we can have debates about these key issues on taxes.
Here is the one thing I'm not going to do. I'm not going to have something that Ted described in his tax plan. It's called the value added tax. And it's a tax you find in many companies in Europe.Where basically, businesses now will have to pay a tax, both on the money they make, but they also have to pay taxes on the money that they pay their employees.And that's why they have it in Europe, because it is a way to blindfolded the people, that's what Ronald Reagan said. Ronald Regan opposed the value tax because he said it was a way to blindfold the people, so the true cost of government was not there there for them.
Now, you can support one now that's very low. But what is to prevent a future liberal president or a liberal Congress from coming back and not just raising the income tax, but also raising that VAT tax, and that vat tax is really bad for seniors. Because seniors, if they are retired, are no longer earning an income from a job. And therefore, they don't get the income tax break, but their prices are going to be higher, because the vat tax is embedded in both the prices that business that are charging and in the wages they pay their employees.When I am president of the United States, I'm going to side with Ronald Regan on this and not Nancy Pelosi and we are not having a vat tax.But that's not an accurate description of the plan. Because, first of all, you may rename the IRS but you are not going to abolishes the IRS, because there has to be some agency that's going to collect your vat tax. Someone's going to be collecting this tax.In fact, Ronald Reagan's treasury, when Ronald Reagan's treasury looked at the vat tax, you know what they found? That they were going to have to hire 20,000 new IRS agencies to collect it.The second point, it does not eliminate the corporate tax or the payroll tax. Businesses will now have to pay 16 percent on the money they make. They will also have to pay 16 percent on the money they pay their employees.So there are people watching tonight in business. If you are now hit on a 60 percent tax on both your income and on the wages you pay your employees, where are you going to get that money from? You're going to get it by paying your employees less and charging your customers more, that is a tax, the difference is, you don't see it on the bill.And that's why Ronald Reagan said that it was a blindfold. You blindfold the American people so that they cannot see the true cost of government. Now 16 percent is what the rate Ted wants it at. But what happens if, God forbid, the next Barack Obama takes over, and the next Nancy Pelosi, and the next Harry Reid and they decide, we're going to raise it to 30 percent, plus we're going to raise the income tax to 30 percent. Now, you've got Europe.
If you'll answer the core question.
Well, first of all, this is an issue that's been debated now for 30 years. And for 30 years, the issue of immigration has been about someone who's in this country, maybe they're here illegally, but they're looking for a job. This issue is not about that anymore.First and foremost, this issue has to be now more than anything else about keeping America safe. And here's why. There is a radical jihadist group that is manipulating our immigration system. And not just green cards. They're looking -- they're recruiting people that enter this country as doctors and engineers and even fiances. They understand the vulnerabilities we have on the southern border.They're looking -- they're looking to manipulate our -- the visa waiver countries to get people into the United States. So our number one priority must now become ensuring that ISIS cannot get killers into the United States. So whether it's green cards or any other form of entry into America, when I'm president if we do not know who you are or why you are coming, you are not going to get into the United States of America.
The issue is a dramatically different issue than it was 24 months ago. Twenty-four months ago, 36 months ago, you did not have a group of radical crazies named ISIS who were burning people in cages and recruiting people to enter our country legally. They have a sophisticated understanding of our legal immigration system and we now have an obligation to ensure that they are not able to use that system against us.The entire system of legal immigration must now be reexamined for security first and foremost, with an eye on ISIS. Because they're recruiting people to enter this country as engineers, posing as doctors, posing as refugees. We know this for a fact. They've contacted the trafficking networks in the Western Hemisphere to get people in through the southern border. And they got a killer in San Bernardino in posing as a fiance.This issue now has to be about stopping ISIS entering the United States, and when I'm president we will.
Maria, let me clear something up here. This is an interesting point when you talk about immigration.
Ted Cruz, you used to say you supported doubling the number of green cards, now you say that you're against it. You used to support a 500 percent increase in the number of guest workers, now you say that you're against it. You used to support legalizing people that were here illegally, now you say you're against it. You used to say that you were in favor of birthright citizenship, now you say that you are against it.And by the way, it's not just on immigration, you used to support TPA, now you say you're against it. I saw you on the Senate floor flip your vote on crop insurance because they told you it would help you in Iowa, and last week, we all saw you flip your vote on ethanol in Iowa for the same reason.
That is not consistent conservatism, that is political calculation. When I am president, I will work consistently every single day to keep this country safe, not call Edward Snowden, as you did, a great public servant. Edward Snowden is a traitor. And if I am president and we get our hands on him, he is standing trial for treason.
And one more point, one more point. Every single time that there has been a Defense bill in the Senate, three people team up to vote against it. Bernie Sanders, Rand Paul and Ted Cruz. In fact, the only budget you have ever voted for, Ted, in your entire time in the Senate is a budget from Rand Paul that brags about how it cuts defense.Here's the bottom line, and I'll close with this. If I'm president of the United States and Congress tries to cut the military, I will veto that in a millisecond.
No, it's your record.
You know, 200 years ago, America was founded on this powerful principle that our rights don't come from government. Our rights come from God.That's why we embraced free enterprise, and it made us the most prosperous people in the history of the world. That's why we embraced individual liberty, and we became the freest people ever, and the result was the American miracle.But now as I travel the country, people say what I feel. This country is changing. It feels different. We feel like we're being left behind and left out.And the reason is simple: because in 2008, we elected as president someone who wasn't interested in fixing America. We elected someone as president who wants to change America, who wants to make it more like the rest of the world.And so he undermines the Constitution, and he undermines free enterprise by expanding government, and he betrays our allies and cuts deals with our enemies and guts our military. And that's why 2016 is a turning point in our history. If we elect Hillary Clinton, the next four years will be worse than the last eight, and our children will be the first Americans ever to inherit a diminished country.But if we elect the right person -- if you elect me -- we will turn this country around, we will reclaim the American dream and this nation will be stronger and greater than it has ever been.Thank you Wolf.It's really amazing to be back in Las Vegas. I spent six years as a child growing not far from where we stand tonight. I use to sit on the porch of our home and listen to my grandfather tell stories as he smoked one of three daily cigars.One of the things my grandfather instilled in me, was that I was really blessed because I was a citizen of the greatest country in the history of our mankind. But there have always been people in American politics that wanted America to be more like the rest of the world. And In 2008, one of them was elected president of this country and the result has been a disaster.Today you have millions of Americans that feel left out and out of place in their own country, struggling to live paycheck to paycheck, called bigots because they hold on to traditional values.And around the world, America's influence has declined while this president has destroyed our military, our allies no longer trust us, and our adversaries no longer respect us. And that is why this election is so important.That is why I'm running for president. And that's why I'm going to ask you for your vote tonight. If you elect me president, we will have a president that believes America is the greatest country in the world and we will have a president that acts like it.
Well, I understand why they feel that way, because this president hasn't kept us safe. The problem is we had an attack in San Bernardino. And we were paying attention to the most important issue we have faced in a decade since 9/11, and then all the talk was about this proposal, which isn't going to happen.But this is what's important to do is we must deal frontally with this threat of radical Islamists, especially from ISIS. This is the most sophisticated terror group that has ever threatened the world or the United States of America. They are actively recruiting Americans. The attacker in San Bernardino was an American citizen, born and raised in this country. He was a health inspector; had a newborn child and left all that behind to kill 14 people.
We also understand that this is a group that's growing in its governance of territory. It's not just Iraq and Syria. They are now a predominant group in Libya. They are beginning to pop up in Afghanistan. They are increasingly involved now in attacks in Yemen. They have Jordan in their sights.This group needs to be confronted with serious proposals. And this is a very significant threat we face. And the president has left us unsafe. He spoke the other night to the American people to reassure us. I wish he hadn't spoken at all. He made things worse. Because what he basically said was we are going to keep doing what we're doing now, and what we are doing now is not working.He is and so are those that voted for it. There were some that voted for it because they wanted to keep it alive and they were afraid the whole program would expire.Here's the world we live in. This is a radical jihadist group that is increasingly sophisticated in its ability, for example, to radicalize American citizens, in its inability to exploit loopholes in our legal immigration system, in its ability to capture and hold territory in the Middle East, as I outlined earlier, in multiple countries.This is not just the most capable, it is the most sophisticated terror threat we have ever faced. We are now at a time when we need more tools, not less tools. And that tool we lost, the metadata program, was a valuable tool that we no longer have at our disposal.Dana, may I interject here?
Let me be very careful when answering this, because I don't think national television in front of 15 million people is the place to discuss classified information. So let me just be very clear. There is nothing that we are allowed to do under this bill that we could not do before.This bill did, however, take away a valuable tool that allowed the National Security Agency and other law -- and other intelligence agencies to quickly and rapidly access phone records and match them up with other phone records to see who terrorists have been calling. Because I promise you, the next time there is attack on -- an attack on this country, the first thing people are going to want to know is, why didn't we know about it and why didn't we stop it? And the answer better not be because we didn't have access to records or information that would have allowed us to identify these killers before they attacked.I want to thank Rand for another 30 seconds, because, number one, what he's pointing to is a bill last week that -- amendment that he voted for that only 10 people voted for. You know why? Because it's not focused on terrorists. It would have banned anyone from coming here. Someone from Taiwan would not have been able to come here as a tourist.Number two, this program, this metadata program is actually more strict than what a regular law enforcement agency has now. If a regular law enforcement agency wants your phone records, all they have to do is issue a subpoena. But now the intelligence agency is not able to quickly gather records and look at them to see who these terrorists are calling. And the terrorists that attacked us in San Bernardino was an American citizen, born and raised in this country. And I bet you we wish we would have had access to five years of his records so we could see who he was working with.
Do I get another 30 seconds? He mentioned me.
Well, let me begin by saying that we have to understand who ISIS is. ISIS is a radical Sunni group. They cannot just be defeated through air strikes. Air strikes are a key component of defeating them, but they must be defeated on the ground by a ground force. And that ground force must be primarily made up of Sunni Arabs themselves, Sunni Arabs that reject them ideologically and confront them militarily.We will have to embed additional American special operators alongside them to help them with training, to help them conduct special missions, and to help improve the air strikes. The air strikes are important, but we need to have an air force capable of it. And because of the budget cuts we are facing in this country, we are going to be left with the oldest and the smallest Air Force we have ever had. We have to reverse those cuts, in addition to the cuts to our Navy and in addition to the cuts to our Army, as well.And beyond that, I would say we must win the information war against ISIS. Every war we have ever been involved in has had a propaganda informational aspect to it. ISIS is winning the propaganda war. They are recruiting people, including Americans, to join them, with the promise that they are joining this great apocalyptic movement that is going to defeat the West. We have to show what life is really like in ISIS territory, and we have to show them why ISIS is not invincible, by going out and conducting these attacks and publicizing them to those who they recruit.
That is accurate. Three times he voted against the Defense Authorization Act, which is a bill that funds the troops. It also, by the way, funds the Iron Dome and other important programs. And I have to assume that if you vote against it in the Senate, you would also veto it as president.He has also supported, by the way, a budget that is called the containment budget. And it is a budget that would radically reduce the amount of money we spend on our military. You can't carpet bomb ISIS if you don't have planes and bombs to attack them with. And if we continue those cuts that we're doing now, not to mention additional cuts, we are going to be left with the oldest and the smallest Air Force this country has ever had, and that leaves us less safe.
Yes, let me -- three points of distinction. The first is, if you're an American citizen and you decide to join up with ISIS, we're not going to read you your Miranda rights. You're going to be treated as an enemy combatant, a member of an army attacking this country.Number two, we do need our defense capabilities. It is a fact that the cuts we are facing today and the cuts that Senator Cruz would have supported would leave us with an even smaller Air Force and a smaller Navy than the one we are going to be left with.And the final point that I would make is Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama's strategy is to lead from behind. It sounds like what he is outlining is not to lead at all. We cannot continue to outsource foreign policy. We must lead. We are the most powerful nation in the world. We need to begin to act like it, again.
Well, they most certainly will have to be worked on to provide more than what they are doing now. There's no doubt about it. And there's one -- one major reason why they have not been willing to be a broader part of the coalition, and that is they have lost complete trust and confidence in this president. This president cut a deal with their moral enemy, the Shia, in Iran. And this is the reason why they no longer trust this president and are willing to work alongside them.But they have as much invested in this as we do. In fact, more so, for it is the king of Saudi Arabia they want to behead first. It's the king of Jordan that they want to dethrone. It's the -- they want to go into Egypt the way they've already gone into Libya.And on another point that we need to talk about, Assad is one of the main reasons why ISIS even exists to begin with. Assad is a puppet of Iran. And he has been so brutal toward the Sunni within Syria that he created the space that led to the people of Syria themselves to stand up and try to overthrow him. That led to the chaos which allowed ISIS to come in and take advantage of that situation and grow more powerful.And the fact that this president led from behind meant there were no alternative groups on the ground to be empowered, leaving ISIS with the prime operating space they needed to become the force they have now become.To begin with, Moammar Gadhafi and the revolt against Gadhafi was not started by the United States. It was started by the Libyan people. And the reason why I argued we needed to get involved is because he was going to go one way or the other. And my argument then was proven true, and that is, the longer that civil war took, the more militias would be formed and the more unstable the country would be after the fact.As far as Moammar Gadhafi is concerned, by the way, Moammar Gadhafi is the man that killed those Americans over Lockerbie, Scotland. Moammar Gadhafi is also the man that bombed that cafe in Berlin and killed those Marines. And you want to know why Moammar Gadhafi started cooperating on his nuclear program? Because we got rid of Saddam Hussein. And so he got scared that he would be next, and that's why he started cooperating.Look, we will have to work around the world with less than ideal governments. The government in Saudi Arabia is not a democracy, but we will have to work with them. The government in Jordan is not perfect, but we will have to work with them. But anti-American dictators like Assad, who help Hezbollah, who helped get those IEDs into Iraq, if they go, I will not shed a tear.
Yeah. Immigration is not an issue that I read about in the newspaper or watch a documentary on PBS or CNN. It's an issues I've lived around my whole life. My family are immigrants. My wife's family are immigrants. All of my neighbors are immigrants.I see every aspect of this problem. The good, the bad, and the ugly. And here's what we learned in 2013. The American people don't trust the Federal Government to enforce our immigration laws, and we will not be able to do anything on immigration until we first prove to the American people that illegal immigration is under control. And we can do that. We know what it takes to do that.
It takes at least 20,000 more additional border agents. It takes completing those 700 miles of fencing. It takes a mandatory e-verify system and a mandatory entry/exit tracking system to prevent overstays. After we have done that, the second thing we have to do is reform and modernize the legal immigration system. And after we have done those two things, I think the American people are gonna be reasonable with what do you do with someone who has been in this country for 10 or 12 years who hasn't otherwise violated our laws -- because if they're a criminal they can't stay. They'll have to undergo a background check, pay a fine, start paying taxes. And ultimately, they'll given a work permit and that's all they're gonna be allowed to have for at least 10 years. But you can't get to that third step until you have done the other two things, and that was the lesson we learned in 2013. There is no trust that the Federal Government will enforce the law. They will not support you until you see it done first.But I've answered that question repeatedly. I am personally open -- after all that has happened and after ten years in that probationary status where all they have is a permit, I personally am open to allowing people to apply for a green card.That may not be a majority position in my party, but that's down the road. You can't even begin that process until you prove to people -- not just pass a law that says you're gonna bring illegal immigration under control. You're gonna have to do it and prove to people that it's working.And that was the lesson of 2013. And it's more true today, than it was then. After a migratory crisis on the border with minors coming over that you're seeing start up again now, after all these executive orders the President has issued. More than ever we need to prove to people that illegal immigration is under control.Yeah, a couple points. In 2013 we had never faced a crisis like the Syrian refugee crisis now. Up until that point, a refugee meant someone fleeing oppression, fleeing Communism like it is in my community.As far as Ted's record, I'm always puzzled by his attack on this issue. Ted, you support legalizing people who are in this country illegally. Ted Cruz supported a 500-percent increase in the number of H-1 visas, the guest workers that are allowed into this country, and Ted supports doubling the number of green cards.So I think what's important for us to understand and there is a way forward on this issue that we an bring our country together on. And while I'm president I will do it. And it will begin by bringing illegal immigration under control and proving to the American people.
No, no, give him time.
Did Ted Cruz fight to support legalizing people that are in this country illegally?
Does Ted Cruz rule out ever legalizing people that are in this country now?
Would you rule it out?
Well, he's just admitted -- as he's just admitted, the reason why those refugees were allowed in was because they messed up in how they used the actual database. They should have know. They didn't because they didn't run the actual law as it exists now. It didn't work well.
As far as the refugees are concerned, it's not that America doesn't want to accept refugees, Wolf. It's that we may not be able to, because this is an issue we have to be 100 percent right on. If we allow 9,999 Syrian refugees into the United States, and all of them are good people, but we allow one person in who's an ISIS killer -- we just get one person wrong, we've got a serious problem.And there is not a single person in the national defense apparatus of this country that can guarantee you are going to be 100 percent right. And that's why as president, I'll take this very seriously.
I do. First, let's explain to people at home who the triad -- what the triad is. Maybe a lot of people haven't heard that terminology before. The triad is our ability of the United States to conduct nuclear attacks using airplanes, using missiles launched from silos or from the ground, and also from our nuclear subs' ability to attack. And it's important -- all three of them are critical. It gives us the ability at deterrence.Now, some have become more critical than others; for example, the submarines. And that's the Ohio Class submarine that needs to be modernized. The air component also needs to be modernized. The B-52, as someone earlier pointed out, is an outdated model that was flown by the grandparents of people that are flying it now. And we need a serious modernization program as well on our silo-launched missiles. All three are critical for the defense of the country.
Thank you. As we near the end of this year, we enter one of the most important elections in a generation. For what's at stake in this election is not simply what party's going to be in charge. But our very identity as a people and as a nation. For over 200 years this has been a special country. A unique place where anyone from anywhere can achieve anything. But now millions of Americans feel like they're being left behind. Insecure in their future and unsafe in the face of terrorism. This election is about electing a president that will restore our economic vibrancy so that the American dream can expand to reach more people and change more lives than ever before. And rebuild our Military and our intelligence programs so that we can remain the strongest nation on earth. Tonight I ask you for your vote.If you do this, we will rebuild this country, and together we will usher in a new American century -- the greatest era in the history of this great land.Well, let me begin by answering both the first question and this one, because they're related. As I've said many times before, my parents were never rich people. My father was a bartender. My mother was a maid. They worked for a living. But they were successful people, because, despite the fact that they weren't well educated and had those jobs, they made enough money to buy a home in a safe and stable neighborhood, retire with dignity, leave all four of their children better off than themselves.We call that the American dream, but in fact, it's a universal dream of a better life that people have all over the world. It is a reminder that every country in the world has rich people.What makes America special is that we have millions and millions of people that are not rich, that through hard work and perseverance are able to be successful.The problem is that today people are not successful working as hard as ever because the economy is not providing jobs that pay enough. If I thought that raising the minimum wage was the best way to help people increase their pay, I would be all for it, but it isn't. In the 20th century, it's a disaster.If you raise the minimum wage, you're going to make people more expensive than a machine. And that means all this automation that's replacing jobs and people right now is only going to be accelerated.Here's the best way to raise wages. Make America the best place in the world to start a business or expand an existing business, tax reform and regulatory reform, bring our debt under control, fully utilize our energy resources so we can reinvigorate manufacturing, repeal and replace Obamacare, and make higher education faster and easier to access, especially vocational training. For the life of me, I don't know why we have stigmatized vocational education. Welders make more money than philosophers. We need more welders and less philosophers.If we do that -- and if we do this -- if we do this, we will be able to increase wages for millions of Americans and we will be able to leave everyone better off without making anyone worse off.
Well, you know, that's an excellent question, because what we are going through in this country is not simply an economic downturn. We are living through a massive economic transformation. I mean, this economy is nothing like what it was like five years ago, not to mention 15 or 20 years ago.
And it isn't just a different economy. It's changing faster than ever. You know, it took the telephone 75 years to reach 100 million users. It took Candy Crush one year to reach some 100 million users.So the world is changing faster than ever, and it is disruptive. Number one, we are in a global competition now, and several of the candidates have said that. There are now dozens of developed economies on this planet that we have to compete with. And we lose that competition because we have the highest business tax rate in the industrialized world, because we have regulations that continue to grow by the billions every single week, because we have a crazy health care law that discourages companies from hiring people, but because we're not fully utilizing our energy resources, that if we did, it would bring back all kinds of growth, especially in manufacturing, and because we have an outdated higher education system.Our higher education system is completely outdated. It is too expensive, too hard to access, and it doesn't teach 21st century skills. If we do what needs to be done -- tax reform, regulatory reform, fully utilize our energy resources, repeal and replace Obamacare, and modernize higher education, then we can grasp the potential and the promise of this new economy. And we won't just save the American dream. We will expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before. And then truly this new century can be a new American century.
 I need to add a couple of points to this. The first is, I've never met Vladimir Putin, but I know enough about him to know he is a gangster. He is basically an organized crime figure that runs a country, controls a $2 trillion economy. And is using to build up his military in a rapid way despite the fact his economy is a disaster.He understands only geopolitical strength. And every time he has acted anywhere in the world, whether it's in Ukraine or Georgia before that, or now in the Middle East, it's because he is trusting in weakness.His calculation in the Middle East is that he has seen what this president has done, which is nothing, the president has no strategy, our allies in the region do not trust us. For goodness sake, there is only one pro-American free enterprise democracy in the Middle East, it is the state of Israel.And we have a president that treats the prime minister of Israel with less respect than what he gives the ayatollah in Iran. And so our allies in the region don't trust us.Vladimir Putin is exploiting that weakness, for purposes of edging the Americans out as the most important geopolitical power broker in the region. And we do have a vested interest. And here's why.Because all those radical terrorist groups that, by the way, are not just in Syria and in Iraq, ISIS is now in Libya. They are a significant presence in Libya, and in Afghanistan, and a growing presence in Pakistan.Soon they will be in Turkey. They will try Jordan. They will try Saudi Arabia. They are coming to us. They recruit Americans using social media. And they don't hate us simply because we support Israel. They hate us because of our values. They hate us because our girls go to school. They hate us because women drive in the United States.Either they win or we win, and we had better take this risk seriously, it is not going away on its own.
Can I just add what -- he's right on point there. Do you know why these banks are so big? The government made them big. The government made them big by adding thousands and thousands of pages of regulations. So the big banks, they have an army of lawyers, they have an army of compliance officers. They can deal with all these things. The small banks, like Governor Bush was saying, they can't deal with all these regulations. They can't deal with all -- they cannot hire the fanciest law firm in Washington or the best lobbying firm to deal with all these regulations. And so the result is, the big banks get bigger, the small banks struggle to lend or even exist, and the result is what you have today.And in Dodd-Frank, you have actually codified too big to fail. We have actually created a category of systemically important institutions, and these banks go around bragging about it. You know what they say to people with a wink and a nod? We are so big, we are so important that if we get in trouble, the government has to bail us out. This is an outrage. We need to repeal Dodd-Frank as soon as possible.
Well, that's a great question, and let me begin by answering it.
This election is about the future, about what kind of country this nation is gonna be in the 21st century. This next (ph) election is actually a generational choice. A choice about what kind of nation we will be in the 21st century.For over 2.5 centuries, America's been a special country, the one place on earth where anyone from anywhere can achieve anything, a nation that's been a force for good on this planet.But now, a growing number of Americans feel out of place in their own country. We have a society that stigmatizes those that hold cultural values that are traditional.We have a society where people -- millions of people -- are living paycheck to paycheck. They're working as hard as they ever have, but they're living paycheck to paycheck because the economy has changed underneath their feet.We have young Americans who owe thousands of dollars in student loans for a degree that doesn't lead to a job. For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses dying than starting, and around the world, every day brings news of a new humiliation for America -- many the direct response -- direct consequence of decisions made when Hillary Clinton was the secretary of the -- of state.And so here's the truth: this election is about the future, and the Democratic Party, and the political left has no ideas about the future. All their ideas are the same, tired ideas of the past. More government, more spending. For every issue for America, their answer is a new tax on someone, and a new government program. This nation is going to turn the page, and that's what this election should be about, and, as I said at the first debate if I am our nominee, they will be the party of the past, we will be the party of the 21st century.Ours -- the story of America is an extraordinary story. It is the story of a nation that for over two centuries each generation has left the next better off than themselves. But now, because Washington is out of touch, for the fault of both political parties, for the first time in our history, that is in doubt.And that is what this election must be about, because if the next four years are anything like the last eight years, our children will be the first Americans ever left worse off by their parents. This election is about making a different choice, about applying our principles of limited government and free enterprise to the unique issues of our time. And if we do, we will not just save the American dream. We will expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before. And the 21st century can be a new American century.So tonight, I ask you for your vote and I ask you to join us at my website, marcorubio.com.
Thank you for that question. I would begin by saying that I'm not sure it's a weakness, but I do believe thatI share a sense of optimism for America's future that, today, is eroding from too many of our people.I think there's a sense in this country today that somehow our best days are behind us. And that doesn't have to be true.Our greatest days lie ahead if we are willing to do what it takes now. If we're willing to do what it takes now, the 21st century is going to be the new American century, greater than any other era we've had in the history of this great nation.That's an interesting question. That's exactly what the Republican establishment says too. Why don't you wait in line? Wait for what? This country is running out of time. We can't afford to have another four years like the last eight years.Watching this broadcast tonight are millions of people that are living paycheck to paycheck. They're working as hard as they ever have, everything costs more, and they haven't had a raise in decades.You have small businesses in America that are struggling. For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses closing than starting. We have a world that's out of control and has grown dangerous and a president that is weakening our military and making our foreign policy unstable and unreliable in the eyes of our allies. And our adversaries continue to grow stronger.We have a -- they say there's no bipartisanship in Washington? We have a $19 trillion bipartisan debt and it continues to grow as we borrow money from countries that do not like us to pay for government we cannot afford.
The time to act is now. The time to turn the page is now. If we -- if we don't act now, we are going to be the first generation in American history that leaves our children worse off than ourselves.
Let me say, I read that editorial today with a great amusement. It's actually evidence of the bias that exists in the American media today.Let me -- let me answer your question on the Sun-Sentinel editorial today. Back in 2004, one of my predecessors to the Senate by the name of Bob Graham, a Democrat, ran for president missing over 30 percent of his votes. I don't recall them calling for his resignation --
Later that year, in 2004, John Kerry ran for president missing close to 60 to 70 percent of his votes. I don't recall the Sun -- in fact, the Sun-Sentinel endorsed him. In 2008, Barack Obama missed 60 or 70 percent of his votes, and the same newspaper endorsed him again. So this is another example of the double standard that exists in this country between the mainstream media and the conservative movement.I get to respond, right?
Well, it's interesting. Over the last few weeks, I've listened to Jeb as he walked around the country and said that you're modeling your campaign after John McCain, that you're going to launch a furious comeback the way he did, by fighting hard in New Hampshire and places like that, carrying your own bag at the airport. You know how many votes John McCain missed when he was carrying out that furious comeback that you're now modeling after?No Jeb, I don't remember -- well, let me tell you. I don't remember you ever complaining about John McCain's vote record. The only reason why you're doing it now is because we're running for the same position, and someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you.
Here's the bottom line.
I'm not -- my campaign is going to be about the future of America, it's not going to be about attacking anyone else on this stage. I will continue to have tremendous admiration and respect for Governor Bush. I'm not running against Governor Bush, I'm not running against anyone on this stage. I'm running for president because there is no way we can elect Hillary Clinton to continue the policies of Barack Obama.
Well, you just -- you just listed a litany of discredited attacks from Democrats and my political opponents, and I'm not gonna waste 60 seconds detailing them all. But I'm going to tell you the truth.Here's the truth. I didn't inherit any money. My dad was a bartender, my mother was a maid. They worked hard to provide us the chance at a better life.They didn't save enough money for us to go to school. I had to work my way through school. I had to borrow money to go to school. I tried, early in my marriage, explaining to my wife why someone named Sallie Mae was taking $1,000 out of our bank account every month.I know what it's like to owe that money, and we've worked hard. We've worked hard our whole life to provide a better family -- a better life for our family.We own a home four blocks away from the place that I grew up in. My four children have been able to receive a good
Christian education, and I've been able to save for them to go to college so they never have to have the loans that I did.But I'm not worried about my finances, I'm worried about the finances of everyday Americans who today are struggling in an economy that is not producing good paying jobs while everything else costs more. And that's what this economy needs to -- that's what this debate needs to be about.This debate needs to be about the men and women across this country that are struggling on a daily basis to provide for their families the better future that we've always said this country is all about.And I used it to pay off my loans. And it's available on paperback, if you're interested in buying my book.
Yeah, again, as I said, we're raising a family in the 21st century and it's one of the reasons why my tax plan is a pro- family tax plan.It increases the per child tax credit, because I didn't read about this in a book. I know for a fact how difficult it is to raise children, how expensive it's become for working families. And I make a lot more than the average American. Imagine how hard it is for these people out there that are making 40, 50, $60,000 a year, and they're trying to provide for their families at a time when this economy is not growing.We can't afford another four years of that. Which is what we're gonna get if we elect a big government liberal like Hillary Clinton to the White House.Well, first of all, if a company gets caught doing that, they should never be able to use the program again. If you get caught abusing this program, you should never be able to use it again.The second thing I said is we need to add reforms, not just increase the numbers, but add reforms. For example, before you hire anyone from abroad, you should have to advertise that job for 180 days. You also have to prove that you're going to pay these people more than you would pay someone else, so that you're not undercutting it by bringing in cheap labor.But here's the best solution of all. We need to get back to training people in this country to do the jobs of the 21st century. Why, for the life of me, I do not understand why did we stop doing vocational education in America, people that can work with their hands; people you can train to do this work while they're still in high school so they can graduate ready to go work. But the best way to close this gap is to modernize higher education so Americans have the skills for those jobs. But in the interim, in the absence of that, what's happening is some of these tech companies are taking those -- those centers to Canada because they can get people to go over there instead of here.But the ideal scenario is to train Americans to do the work so we don't have to rely on people from abroad.
Well, I believe that there are abuses, those companies should be permanently barred from ever using the program again and we should put strict standards in place to ensure that they're not being abused, like the prevailing wage requirement and like the advertising requirement.Since I've been mentioned, can I respond?
OK. I know the Democrats have the ultimate SuperPac. It's called the mainstream media who every single day and I'll tell you why. Last week, Hillary Clinton went before a committee. She admitted she had sent e-mails to her family saying, "Hey, this attack at Benghazi was caused by Al Qaida-like elements." She spent over a week telling the families of those victims and the American people that it was because of a video. And yet the mainstream media is going around saying it was the greatest week in Hillary Clinton's campaign.It was the week she got exposed as a liar. It was the week that she got exposed as a liar.But she has her super PAC helping her out, the American mainstream media.
No, that's -- you're wrong. In fact, the largest after- tax gains is for the people at the lower end of the tax spectrum under my plan. And there's a bunch of things my tax plan does to help them.Number one, you have people in this country that you wrote a story on it, and you had to go back and correct it.
You did. No, you did.
Yeah, but that -- because the math is, if you -- 5 percent of a million is a lot more than 5 percent of a thousand. So yeah, someone who makes more money numerically, it's gonna be higher. But the greatest gains, percentage-wise, for people, are gonna be at the lower end of our plan, and here's why: because in addition to a general personal exemption, we are increasing the per-child tax credit for working families.We are lowering taxes on small business. You know, a lot of business activity in America is conducted like the guy that does my dry cleaning. He's an S corporation. He pays on his personal rate, and he is paying higher than the big dry-cleaning chain down the street, because he's paying at his personal rate.Under my plan, no business, big or small, will pay more than 25 percent flat rate on their business income. That is a dramatic tax decrease for hard-working people who run their own businesses. The other thing I'd like to make about our plan, one more point, it is the most pro growth tax plan that I can imagine because it doesn't tax investments at all. You know why? Because the more you tax something, the less of it you get.I want to be in -- I want America to be the best in the world for people.
Thank you.Well, I've learned the rules on this.Look, in addition to what Donald was saying is we also need to talk about the legal immigration system for permanent residents. Today, we have a legal immigration system for permanent residency that is largely based on whether or not you have a relative living here. And that's the way my parents came legally in 1956.But in 2015, we have a very different economy. Our legal immigration system from now on has to be merit-based. It has to be based on what skills you have, what you can contribute economically, and most important of all, on whether or not you're coming here to become an American, not just live in America, but be an American.No. No. What I said was that I think that Dr. Carson's ideas are good ideas. They're not my ideas, and I don't necessarily agree with all of them.But this is what you're seeing in the Republican debate that you didn't see in that Democrat debate.You didn't see it for a minute. You didn't see these kind of ideas being batted around, and being batted around in a way that's civil and smart and that's trying to help to inform the voter out there.What you saw was a parade of, "I'll give you this for free; I'll give you that for free."Let me tell you, everybody, when they say they want to give it to you for free, keep your hands on your wallets because they're coming to you to pay for it. And that's why I think these ideas up here are great, and that's what we should have is have more discussions like this and less gotcha.
I want to take off from that point and argue the same thing. And that is that one of the things you're watching tonight are 11 quality candidates debating an important issue. The Republican Party is blessed to have 11 good candidates, (inaudible) 10 good candidates. The Democrats can't even come up with one.And on this issue of the Medicare in particular, it's important because they're going to demagogue what we're saying here tonight. Everyone up here tonight that's talking about reforms, I think and I know for myself I speak to this, we're all talking about reforms for future generations. Nothing has to change for current beneficiaries. My mother is on Medicare and Social Security. I'm against anything that's bad for my mother.So, we're talking about -- we're talking about reform for people like me and people like Senator Cruz, as he talked about earlier, who are years away from retirement that have a way to plan for these changes, and way that's very reasonable. And it's not too much to ask of our generation after everything our parents and our grandparents did for us.You know, America doesn't owe me anything. I have a debt to America I'll never repay. This isn't just the country I was born in, this is the nation that literally changed the history of my family. My parents in this country were able to give me the chance to do all the things they never did. We call that the American Dream, although, it's built on the universal dream of a better life.The fact that it's happened for so many people here throughout our history, that's what makes us special. But, now for millions of Americans, it's slipping away. And, we have a government and leaders in government that are completely out of touch, and that's why I'm running for president. Because we can't just save the American Dream, we can expand it to reach more people, and change more lives than ever before.
And, that's why tonight I'm asking you for your vote.
Thank you. My name is Marco Rubio. Im from Florida. My wife Jeanette and I are the proud  weve been married 17 years, and were the proud parents of four children, two of whom were able to join us here this evening.Im honored to be here at the Reagan Library, at a place that honors the legacy of a man who inspired not just my interest in public service, but also our love for country.And Im also aware that California has a drought, and so thats why I made sure I brought my own water.
Well, first of all, I have an understanding of exactly what it is Russia and Putin are doing, and its pretty straightforward. He wants to reposition Russia, once again, as a geopolitical force.He himself said that the destruction of the Soviet Union  the fall of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century, and now hes trying to reverse that.Hes trying to destroy NATO. And this is what this is a part of. He is exploiting a vacuum that this administration has left in the Middle East.Heres what youre gonna see in the next few weeks: the Russians will begin to fly  fly combat missions in that region, not just targeting ISIS, but in order to prop up Assad.He will also, then, turn to other countries in the region and say, America is no longer a reliable ally, Egypt. America is no longer a reliable ally, Saudi Arabia. Begin to rely on us.What he is doing is he is trying to replace us as the single most important power broker in the Middle East, and this president is allowing it. That is what is happening in the Middle East. Thats whats happening with Russia, and...
Let me tell you  I will tell you we have zero responsibility, because lets remember what the president said. He said the attack he would conduct would be a pinprick. Well, the United States military was not build to conduct pinprick attacks.
If the United States military is going to be engaged by a commander-in-chief, it should only be engaged in an endeavor to win. And were not going to authorize use of force if youre not put in a position where they can win.And quite frankly, people dont trust this president as commander-in-chief because of that.
Hold on, a second, Jake, he asked me, as well. Id like to actually respond. I think Im the first senator.
The No. 1 test for use of military force should be the vital national security interest of the United States. The reason why I opposed President Obama bombing Syria, is because he couldnt answer the question what do you do if chemical weapons end up in the hands of radical Islamic terrorists like al-Nusra, like Al Qaida, like ISIS?Now, I also want to respond to several folks up here who said we should trust this Iranian deal, see if the Iranians will comply.Anyone who is paying attention to what Khamenei says knows that they will not comply. There is a reason Khamenei refers to Israel as the little Satan, and America as the great Satan.
In the middle of negotiating this treaty, Khamenei led the assembled masses in chanting, death to America. Im reminded of a great editorial cartoon. It shows the Ayatollah Khamenei saying, Death to all Americans, and then it shows John Kerry coming back, saying, Can we meet ya half way?
We need a commander-in-chief who will stand up and protect this country. And Ill tell you, I cant wait to stand on that debate stage with Hillary Clinton and to make abundantly clear if you vote for Hillary, you are voting for the Ayatollah Khomeini to possess a nuclear weapon and if you elect me as president, under no circumstances will a theocratic ayatollah who chants death to America ever be allowed to acquire a nuclear weapon.
Ms. Dana, I agree that English is the unifying language of our country, and everyone should learn to speak it. Its important.I want to tell you a story about someone that didnt speak English that well. It was my grandfather; he came to this country in the 1960s, as a  escaping Cuba. And he lived with us, growing up.And my grandfather loved America. He understood what was so special about this country. He loved Ronald Reagan; he would be very proud of the fact that were here this evening.My grandfather instilled in me the belief that I was blessed to live in the one society in all of human history where even I, the son of a bartender and a maid, could aspire to have
anything, and be anything that I was willing to work hard to achieve.But he taught me that in Spanish, because it was the language he was most comfortable in. And he became a conservative, even though he got his news in Spanish.And so, I do give interviews in Spanish, and heres why  because I believe that free enterprise and limited government is the best way to help people who are trying to achieve upward mobility.And if they get their news in Spanish, I want them to hear that directly from me. Not from a translator at Univision.Well, let me say that legal immigration is not an issue I read about in the newspaper. Immigration, illegal immigration, all the good aspects of immigration and all the negative ones as well, I live with. My familys immigrants. My neighbors are all immigrants. My in-laws are all immigrants.So Ive seen every aspect of it, and I can tell you America doesnt have one immigration problem, it has three.First, despite the fact that we are the most generous country in the history of the world in allowing people to come here legally, we have people still coming illegally.Second, we have a legal immigration system that no longer works. It primary is built on the basis of whether you have a relative living here instead of merit.And third, we have 11 million or 12 million people, many of whom have been here for longer than a decade who are already here illegally.And we must deal with all three of these problems. We cannot deal with all three of these problems in one massive piece of legislation. I learned that. We tried it that way.Heres the way forward: First, we must  we must secure our border, the physical border, with  with a wall, absolutely. But we also need to have an entry/exit tracking system. 40 percent of the people who come here illegally come legally, and then they overstay the visa. We also need a mandatory e-verify system.After weve done that, step two would be to modernize our legal immigration system so you come to America on the basis of what you can contribute economically, not whether or not simply you have a relative living here.And after weve done those two things, I believe the American people will be very reasonable and responsible about what you do with someone whos been here and isnt a criminal. If youre a criminal, obviously, you will not be able to stay.
Yes, well, it does. But its in the following way, this is an important question. I think if youre running for president, these are important issues, because look at around the world today.There is a lunatic in North Korea with dozens of nuclear weapons and long-range rocket that can already hit the very place in which we stand tonight. The Chinese are rapidly expanding their military. They hack into our computers. Theyre building artificial islands in the South China Sea, the most important shipping lane in the world.A gangster in Moscow is not just threatening Europe, hes threatening to destroy and divide NATO. You have radical jihadists in dozens of countries across multiple continents. And they even recruit Americans using social media to try to attack us here at home.And now we have got this horrible deal with Iran where a radical Shia cleric with an apocalyptic vision of the future is also guaranteed to one day possess nuclear weapons and also a long-range rocket that can hit the United States.These are extraordinarily dangerous times that we live in. And the next president of the United States better be someone that understands these issues and has good judgment about them because the number one issue that a president will ever confront, and the most important obligation that the federal government has, is to keep this nation safe.
And today we are not doing that. We are eviscerating our military. And we have a president that is more respectful to the ayatollah in Iran than he is to the prime minister of Israel.
Well, thats why we have a debate. I think that we should have a deeper debate about these issues, because there is no more important decision that a president will make.
Well, you should ask him questions in detail about the foreign policy issues our president will confront, because you had better be able to lead our country on the first day.Not six months from now, not a year from now, on the first day in office, our president could very well confront a national security crisis. You cant predict it. Sometimes you cannot control it.And it is the most  the federal government does all kinds of things its not supposed to be doing. It regulates bathrooms. It regulates schools that belong to local communities.But the one thing that the federal government must do, the one thing that only the federal government can do is keep us safe. And a president better be up-to-date on those issues on his first day in office, on her first day in office.
Trust me, I get that. OK.
I never get to addressed, and when I do, Im gonna jump in.
Yeah. He did. Let me  Im proud to serve in the United States Senate. You know, when I ran five years ago, the entire leadership of my party in Washington lined up against me.But Im glad I won. And Im glad that I ran, because this countrys headed in the wrong direction. And if we keep electing the same people, nothing is going to change.And youre right, I have missed some votes, and Ill tell you why, Mr. Trump. Because in my years in the Senate, Ive figured out very quickly that the political establishment in Washington, D.C. in both political parties is completely out of touch with the lives of our people.You have millions of people in this country living paycheck to paycheck, and nothing is being done about it. We are about to leave our children with $18 trillion in  in  in debt, and theyre about to raise the debt limit again.We have a world that grows increasingly dangerous, and we are eviscerating our military spending and signing deals with Iran. And these  if this thing continues, we are going to be the first Americans to leave our children worse off than ourselves.Thats why Im missing votes. Because I am leaving the Senate, Im not running for re- election, and Im running for president because I know this: unless we have the right president, we cannot make America fulfill its potential, but with the right person in office, the 21st century can be the greatest era that our nation has ever known.I want to go even deeper  and I want to go even deeper in that direction, because I think the belief that somehow by retreating, America makes the world safer has been disproven every single time its ever been tried.Syrias a perfect example of it. The uprising in Syria was not started by the United States; it was started by the Syrian people. And I warned at the time  this was three and a half years ago  I openly and repeatedly warned that if we did not find moderate elements on
the ground that we could equip and arm, that void would be filled by radical jihadists.Well, the president didnt listen, the administration didnt follow through, and thats exactly what happened. That is why ISIS grew. That is why ISIS then came over the border from Syria and back into Iraq.What is happening in that region is the direct consequence of the inability to lead and of disengagement. And the more we disengage, the more airplanes from Moscow youre going to see flying out of Damascus and out of Syria as you asked earlier today.
But radical terrorism cannot be solved by intellect. It cannot  they require  what they need, is they need an operating space. Thats what Afghanistan was for Al Qaida. It was a vacuum that they filled, and they created an operating space.Thats why they had to be drawn out of there. Thats why they had to be destroyed. It is the reason why ISIS has grown as well. We allowed them  we allowed a vacuum to emerge in Syria. They used it as an operating space to grow; and today theyre not just in Iraq and Syria anymore, theyre now in Libya, conducting operations in the Sinai.Theyre now in Afghanistan, trying to supplant the Taliban as the most powerful radical jihadist group on the ground there, as well. You cannot allow radical jihadists to have an operating safe haven anywhere in the world.heres a broader issue here, Hugh. And theres a broader issue here as well.First of all, the only people that follow the law are law-abiding people. Criminals by definition ignore the law, so you can pass all the gun laws in the world, like the left wants. The criminals are going to ignore it because they are criminals.Heres the real issue.
he real issue  the real issue is not what are people using to commit violence, but why are they committing the violence? And heres the truth: Because you cannot separate the social, moral wellbeing of your people from their economic and other wellbeing. You cannot separate it.You cant have a strong country without strong people, you cannot have strong people without strong values, and you cannot have strong values without strong families and the institutions in this country that defend and support those families.
Well, and today, we have a left-wing government under this president that is undermining all of the institutions and society that support the family and teach those values.
Because were not going to destroy our economy the way the left-wing government that we are under now wants to do. Were not going to...
Well, and I dont  he may have lined up with their positions on this issue. But here is the bottom line. Every proposal they put forward are going to be proposals that will make it harder to do business in America, that will make it harder to create jobs in America.Single parents are already struggling across this country to provide for their families. Maybe a billionaire here in California can afford an increase in their utility rates, but a working family in Tampa, Florida, or anywhere across this country cannot afford it.So we are not going to destroy our economy. We are not going to make America a harder place to create jobs in order to pursue policies that will do absolutely nothing, nothing to change our climate, to change our weather, because America is a lot of things, the greatest country in the world, absolutely.But America is not a planet. And we are not even the largest carbon producer anymore, China is. And theyre drilling a hole and digging anywhere in the world that they can get a hold of.So the bottom line is, I am not in favor of any policies that make America a harder place for people to live, or to work, or to raise their families.
Jake, you mentioned me and called me a denier. Let me say, climate change...
OK. A skeptic. You can measure the climate. You can measure it. Thats not the issue were discussing. Here is what Im skeptical of. Im skeptical of the decisions that the left wants us to make, because I know the impact those are going to have and theyre all going to be on our economy.They will not do a thing to lower the rise of the sea. They will not do a thing to cure the drought here in California. But what they will do is they will make America a more expensive place to create jobs.And today with millions of people watching this broadcast that are struggling paycheck to paycheck that do not know how theyre going to pay their bills at the end of this month, Im not in favor of anything that is going to make it harder for them to raise their family.Senator Rubio, you mean?
I know we all look alike.The  Rosa Parks, an everyday American that changed the course of history.Well, there are some people in Florida upset at me over a joke I made about Florida State, but, what the heck, I want my codename to be Gator.
One of the things that made Ronald Reagan a great president, is that he understood that America was a unique nation, like any other that had existed throughout human history. He knew it was founded on universal principles that were powerful, the dignity of all people, human rights, the rights of all to live in freedom and liberty, and choose their own path in life. He didnt just believe it, he acted on it. Thats why bringing down communism was so important to him. If Im honored with the opportunity to be president, I hope that our Air Force One will fly, first and foremost, to our allies; in Israel, in South Korea, and Japan. They know we stand with them. That America can be counted on.It would also fly to China, not just to meet with our enemies, not just to meet with those adversaries of ours that are there, but also to meet with those that aspire to freedom and liberty within China. I would even invite them to my inauguration.We would also fly into Moscow and into Russia. And not just meet with the leaders of Russia, but also meet with those who aspire to freedom and liberty in Russia. And ultimately, I hope that my Air Force One, if I become president, will one day land in a free Cuba, where its people can choose its leaders and its own destiny.Well, thank you for the question, Chris, and its great to be here tonight. Let me begin by saying this: Im not new to the political process; I was making a contribution as the speaker of the third largest and most diverse state in the country well before I even got into the Senate.I would add to that that this election cannot be a resume competition. Its important to be qualified, but if this election is a resume competition, then Hillary Clintons gonna be the next president, because shes been in office and in government longer than anybody else running here tonight.Heres what this election better be about: This election better be about the future, not the past. It better be about the issues our nation and the world is facing today, not simply the issues we once faced.This country is facing an economy that has been radically transformed. You know, the largest retailer in the country and the world today, Amazon, doesnt even own a single store? And these changes have been disruptive. They have changed peoples lives. The jobs that once sustained our middle class, they either dont pay enough or they are gone, and we need someone that understands that as our nominee.If Im our nominee, how is Hillary Clinton gonna lecture me about living paycheck to paycheck? I was raised paycheck to paycheck. How is she  how is she gonna lecture me
 how is she gonna lecture me about student loans? I owed over $100,000 just four years ago.If Im our nominee, we will be the party of the future.Let me set the record straight on a couple of things. The first is, the evidence is now clear that the majority of people coming across the border are not from Mexico. Theyre coming from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras. Those countries are the source of the people that are now coming in its majority.I also believe we need a fence. The problem is if El Chapo builds a tunnel under the fence, we have to be able to deal with that too. And thats why you need an e-verify system and you need an entry-exit tracking system and all sorts of other things to prevent illegal immigration. But I agree with what Governor Kasich just said. People are frustrated. This is the most generous country in the world when it comes to immigration. There are a million people a year who legally immigrate to the United States, and people feel like were being taken advantage of. We feel like despite our generosity, were being taken advantage of.And let me tell you who never gets talked about in these debates. The people that call my office, who have been waiting for 15 years to come to the United States. And theyve paid their fees, and they hired a lawyer, and they cant get in. And theyre wondering, maybe they should come illegally.
And so these are important issues, and we should address it. Its a serious problem that needs to be addressed, and otherwise were going to keep talking about this for the next 30 years, like we have for the last 30 years.
Well, first off, I too believe in curriculum reform. It is critically important in the 21st Century. We do need curriculum reform. And it should happen at the state and local level. That is where educational policy belongs, because if a parent is unhappy with what their child is being taught in school, they can go to that local school board or their state legislature, or their governor and get it changed.Heres the problem with Common Core. The Department of Education, like every federal agency, will never be satisfied. They will not stop with it being a suggestion. They will turn it into a mandate.In fact, what they will begin to say to local communities is, you will not get federal money unless do you things the way we want you to do it. And they will use Common Core or any other requirements that exists nationally to force it down the throats of our people in our states.
Thats a great question.
Thats a great question.First of all, it begins by having leaders that recognize that the economy we live in today is dramatically different from the one we had five years ago. Its an economy that now has placed us in global competition with dozens of other countries around the world.Now, the big companies that have connections with Washington, they can affect policies to help them, but the small companies like the one Tania is talking about, theyre the ones that are struggling.The first thing we need to do is we need to even out the tax code for small businesses so that we lower their tax rate to 25 percent, just as we need to lower it for all businesses.We need to have a regulatory budget in America that limits the amount of regulations on our economy. We need to repeal and replace Obamacare and we need to improve higher education so that people can have access to the skills they need for 21st century jobs.And last but not least, we need to repeal Dodd-Frank. It is eviscerating small businesses and small banks.
20  over 40 percent of small and mid-size banks that loan money to small businesses have been wiped out over the  since Dodd-Frank has passed. We need to repeal and replace Dodd-Frank. We need to make America fair again for all businesses, but especially those being run by small business owners.Well, Megyn, first of all, Im not sure that thats a correct assessment of my record. I would go on to add that I believe allI have never said that. And I have never advocated that. What I have advocated is that we pass law in this country that says all human life at every stage of its development is worthy of protection.In fact, I think that law already exists. It is called the Constitution of the United States.
And let me go further. I believe that every single human being is entitled to the protection of our laws, whether they can vote or not. Whether they can speak or not. Whether they can hire a lawyer or not. Whether they have a birth certificate or not. And I think future generations will look back at this history of our country and call us barbarians for murdering millions of babies who we never gave them a chance to live.
Well, first, let me say I think God has blessed us. He has blessed the Republican Party with some very good candidates. The Democrats cant even find one.And I believe God has blessed our country. This country has been extraordinarily blessed. And we have honored that blessing. And thats why God has continued to bless us.And he has blessed us with young men and women willing to risk their lives and sometimes die in uniform for the safety and security of our people.Unfortunately today we have a VA that does not do enough for them. I am proud that last year we helped change the law. We changed the law to give the power to the VA secretary the ability to fire any executive that isnt doing their job.And it is outrageous theyve only fired one person to date. When Im president of the United States, were going to have a VA that cares more about our veterans than about the bureaucrats who work at the VA.Thank you. You know, both of my parents were born into poor families on the island of Cuba. They came to America because it was the only place where people like them could have a chance. Here in this country, they never made it big, but the very purpose of their life was to give us the chance to do all the things they never could.My father was a bartender. And the journey from the back of that bar to this stage tonight, to me, that is the essence of the American dream. It is what makes our nation different. And Im running for president because I want that to still be possible for the people trying to do that now. I run for president because I believe that we cant just save the American dream; we can expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before. And thats why Im asking for your vote. So we can make America greater than it has ever been. And make this century a new American century.
Well, let me first talk about Justice Scalia. His loss is tremendous, and obviously our hearts and prayers go out to his family. He will go down as one of the great justices in the history of this republic.You talk about someone who defended consistently the original meaning of the Constitution, who understood that the Constitution was not there to be interpreted based on the fads of the moment, but it was there to be interpreted according to its original meaning.Justice Scalia understood that better than anyone in the history of this republic. His dissent, for example, on the independent counsel case is a brilliant piece of jurist work. And, of course, his dissent on Obergefell as well.No. 2, I do not believe the president should appoint someone. And its not unprecedented. In fact, it has been over 80 years since a lame duck president has appointed a Supreme Court justice.And it remind us of this, how important this election is. Someone on this stage will get to choose the balance of the Supreme Court, and it will begin by filling this vacancy thats there now.And we need to put people on the bench that understand that the Constitution is not a living and breathing document. It is to be interpreted as originally meant.Thats not accurate.
No, Ive never  there has been, for example, today, according to the changes Harry Reid made, appellate judges can now be appointed by a simple majority, but not Supreme Court justices.And I think today you see the wisdom of why we dont want that to change. Because if that were the case and we were not in charge of the Senate, Harry Reid and Barack Obama would ram down our throat a liberal justice, like the ones Barack Obama has imposed on us already.No. I think there are three major threats that you want to immediately get on top of. No. 1 is, what are we doing in the Asia-Pacific region, where both North Korea and China pose threats to the national security of the United States.No. 2 is, what are we doing in the Middle East with the combination of the Sunni-Shia conflict driven by the Shia arc that Iran is now trying to establish in the Middle East, also the growing threat of ISIS.And the third is rebuilding and reinvigorating NATO in the European theater, particularly in Central Europe and in Eastern Europe, where Vladimir Putin is now threatening the territory of multiple countries, already controls 20 percent of Georgia and a significant percentage of Ukraine.Well, let me tell you what has happened a couple of years ago. One of the hardest decisions youll ever make in Congress is when you are asked by the president to authorize the use of force in a conflict, because you are now putting your name, on behalf of the people of your state, behind a military action, where Americans in uniform could lose their life.So, in 2014, Barack Obama said he would not take military action against Assad unless it was authorized by the Senate, beginning on the Committee of Foreign Relations, where I am one of its members. And it was hard because you looked at the pictures. I saw the same images people saw. Im the father of children. I saw the images of these little children  been gassed and poisoned by their own leaders, and we were angry. Something had to happen, and there was the sense that we needed to seek retribution.And then I looked at Barack Obamas plan. Barack Obamas plan, which John Kerry later described as unbelievably small, and I concluded that that attack would not only not help the situation, it would make it actually worse. It would allow Assad to stand up to the United States of America, survive a strike, stay in power and actually strengthen his grip.So it was a difficult decision to make, and when we only had a few days to look at and make a decision on it, and I voted against Barack Obamas plan to use force, and it was the right decision.I just want to say, at least on behalf of me and my family, I thank God all the time it was George W. Bush in the White House on 9/11 and not Al Gore.
And you can  I think you can look back in hindsight and say a couple of things, but he kept us safe. And not only did he keep us safe, but no matter what you want to say about weapons of mass destruction, Saddam Hussein was in violation of U.N. resolutions, in open violation, and the world wouldnt do anything about it, and George W. Bush enforced what the international community refused to do.And again, he kept us safe, and I am forever grateful to what he did for this country.
The World Trade Center came down because Bill Clinton didnt kill Osama bin Laden when he had the chance to kill him.
Well, because Im influencing social policy  this is their money. This is the money of parents. You dont earn the tax credit unless youre working. Thats your money, it doesnt belong to government.Heres what I dont understand. If a business takes their money and they invest in the piece of the equipment, they get to write off their taxes. But if a parent takes money that they have earned to work and invests in their children, they dont? This makes no sense.Parenting is the most important job any of us will ever have. Family formation is the most important thing in society. So what my tax plan does, is it does create, especially for working families, an additional Child Tax Credit. So that parents who are working get to keep more of their own money, not the governments money, to invest in their children to go to school, to go to a private school, to buy a new backpack.Let me tell you, if youre a parent thats struggling, then you know that $50 a month is the difference between a new pair of shoes this month or not getting a new pair of shoes for your kids. Im going to have a tax plan that is pro-family, because the family is the most important institution in society. You cannot have a strong country without strong families.Well, first of all, I think amnesty is the forgiveness of a wrongdoing without consequence and that  Ive never supported that. I do not support that. I think there has to be consequences for violating our immigration laws. What I think is clear about this issue to begin with is were not going to be able to make progress on illegal immigration until first, illegal immigration is brought under control.You go back to 1986, when they legalized three million people and they promised to secure the border. It didnt happen, and as a result, people have lost trust in the federal government. It is now clear that the only way to make progress on immigration is not just to pass a law that enforces the law, but actually prove to people that its working.They want to see the wall built. They want to see the additional border agents. They want to see E-Verify. They want to see an entry-exit tracking system. Forty percent of the people in this country illegally are entering legally and overstaying visas. And only after all of that is in place, then well see what the American people are willing to support on this issue.I think the American people will be very reasonable, but responsible, about how you handle someone who has been here a long time, who can pass a background check, who pays a fine and starts paying taxes and all they want is a work permit. But you cant do any of that until you prove to people that illegal immigration is under control once and for all.Were going to have to do this again, O.K.? When that issue was being debated, Ted Cruz, at a committee hearing, very passionately said, I want immigration reform to pass, I want people to be able to come out of the shadows. And he proposed an amendment that would legalized people here.Not only that, he proposed doubling the number of green cards. He proposed a 500 percent increase on guest workers. Now his position is different. Now he is a passionate opponent of all those things.So he either wasnt telling the truth then or he isnt telling the truth now, but to argue he is a purist on immigration is just not true.Well, first of all, I dont know how he knows what I said on Univision, because he doesnt speak Spanish. 
Look, this is a disturbing pattern now, because for a number of weeks now, Ted Cruz has just been telling lies. He lied about Ben Carson in Iowa.
He lies about Planned Parenthood. He lies about marriage. Hes lying about all sorts of things. And now he makes things up. The bottom line is this is a campaign and people are watching it. And they see the truth behind all these issues.
Well, well put on our website, marcorubio.com.
On anything I want?
Well, let me talk about poverty.
I do.
I had something important.
The issue of poverty is critical, because for me, poverty is the  is  is free enterprise not reaching people. Today, we have antipoverty programs that dont cure poverty. We dont cure poverty in America. Our antipoverty programs have become, in some instances, a way of life, a lifestyle.Now, we do need antipoverty programs, you cant have free enterprise programs without them, but not as a way of life. And so I have a very specific proposal on this and I dont  in 60 seconds, I cant describe it all, but it basically turns the program over to states. It allows states to design innovative programs that cure poverty, because I think Nikki Haley will do a better job curing poverty than Barack Obama.
Well, no. Its not the case. It didnt pass, and we havent solved immigration in this country. Its still a problem. It is worse today than it was three years ago, which is worse than it was five years ago. And it has to be confronted and solved.But the only way forward on this issue  you asked a question about flexibility. Let me tell you about that. One of the things that you need in leadership is the ability to understand that to get things done, you must figure out the way to get it done. You will not pass comprehensive immigration reform. People do not trust the federal government.They want to see the law being enforced. They want to see illegal immigration come under control. They want to see that wall. They want to see E-Verify. They want to see all of these things working, and then they will have a conversation with you about what do you do with people that have been here a long time that are otherwise, you know, not criminals. But theyre not going to do it until you first enforce the law.Thirty seconds.
I speak fast.
Well, I think one of the presidents  well, the president I grew up under was Ronald Reagan. And Reagan had a vision for Americas future. And if you think about what Ronald Reagan inherited, its not unlike what the next president is going to inherit.This is the worst president weve had in 35 years, 35 years back would have made it Jimmy Carter. Thats what Ronald Reagan inherited. And I think the question you would ask is, how did you inspire again the American people to believe in the future?How did you  what did it take to ensure that the American people, despite all of the difficulties of the time  you know, you look back at that time, the American military was in decline. Our standing in the world was in decline. We had hostages being held in Iran. Our economy was in bad shape.The American people were scared about the future. They were scared about what kind of country their children were going to live in and inherit. And yet somehow Ronald Reagan was able to instill in our nation and in our people a sense of optimism.And he turned America around because of that vision and ultimately because of that leadership. I wish Ronald Reagan was still around. This country needs someone just like that.And if our next president is even half the president Ronald Reagan was, America is going to be greater than it has ever been.Thank you, and thank you for watching tonight.This is a difficult time in our country. Our economys flat, its not creating the jobs it once did, and people struggle living paycheck to paycheck. Our cultures in trouble. Wrong is considered right and right is considered wrong.All the things that once held our families together are now under constant assault. And around the world, Americas reputation is in decline. Our allies dont trust us, our adversaries dont fear us, Iran captures our sailors and parades them before the world on video.These are difficult times, but 2016 can be a turning point. Thats why Im running for president, and thats why Im here today to ask you for your vote.
If you elect me president, we are going to re-embrace free enterprise so that everyone can go as far as their talent and their work will take them.We are going to be a country that says that life begins at conception and life is worthy of the protection of our laws. Were going to be a country that says that marriage is between one man and one woman. We are going to be a country that says, The constitution and the rights that it talks about do not come from our president, they come from our creator. We are going to be loyal to our allies like Israel, not enemies like Iran. And we will rebuild the U.S. military so no one will there test it.Vote for me. I will unify this party. I will grow it. We will win this election, and we will make the 21st century a new American century.Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. 
The Marco-mentum?I love that term. Yes.I do. I feel great about it. I mean we feel a lot of energy. People coming to our rallies are each getting bigger. People signing up. Obviously, Saturday, we'll find out. People are going to vote.But I - all I can do is our best. We've got a good message and I know why I'm running. And I feel good about what that's going to translate to. So we'll see.Well, I said he's been lying because if you say something that isn't true and you say it over and over again and you know that it's not true, there's no other word for it. And when it's about your record, you have to clear it up, because if you don't, then people say, well, then it must be true. He didn't dispute it.And he's done that a number of times. We saw what he did to Dr. Carson in Iowa, which was wrong. We saw yesterday Trey Gowdy, somebody came up with a fake Facebook post saying Trey Gowdy was no longer endorsing me, a very popular congressman here in South Carolina.So these things are disturbing and they need to be addressed. And I'll address them.But that's not the core of my campaign. I spend 99 percent of my time talking about America's future. But if someone says something that's not true, and I don't clear it up, well, that's not fair. Then people may think, well, then it's true.Yes, but President Obama has no standing to talk about immigration because his party controlled the White House, the House and the Senate for two years andthey did nothing.And then, after, uh, Barack Obama has now put in place two unconstitutional executive orders, which has made it even harder to move forward on immigration.So I believe this issue has to be dealt with. And if you're serious about dealing with immigration, the only thing I'm saying is you'd better secure the border first. Nothin else is going to be able to happen. Nothing else can happen until you secure the border first.The people have been very clear about that. And until we - that's the key that unlocks the door to dealing with the rest of the issue. Until you do that, we just won't be able to make any progress.Yes, and it doesn't - it can't pass. It doesn't have the votes. People won't support a comprehensive approach to immigration. It's now been tried three times in the last decade. It has failed each time.And so now we have to understand that the only way forward is through a step by step approach that begins by finally securing our border.We're a sovereign country. Every country has a right to control who comes here, how they come here, when they come here. And we are the most generous country in the world on immigration.Well, I didn't think the Senate version would pass as it sovereign country. Every country has a right to control who comes here, how they come here, when the come here. We are the most generous country in the world on immigration.Well, I didn't think the Senate version would pass as is. I knew it wouldn't. In fact, I repeatedly said that during the process. I said, "this bill is not strong enough."I understood the Democrats controlled the Senate and so that's the best we could produce in a Senate controlled by Democrats. We wanted to send it to the House. We had hoped the House Republicans Conservatives would make it even better. They never took it up and so there's no way for it.I can just tell you after that experience, for a fact of having been through that, no progress will be made on immigration in this country until we prove to the American people  not just pass a law but a prove to them that we've built the sufficient walls and fences on the border. That we have mandatory e-verify, that we have entry-exit tracking system to prevent Visa overstays and that we hire additional border agents and resources to secure the border.It's a very very complicated issue and I'll you why, it's about encryption. Today, there's encryption out, I think it's standard on the new Apple and what it does is it protects your privacy. If you lose your Ipad, if you lose your phone; no one can hack into and get your information. So that's why it's there.Here's the thing though, if you require by law  if we passed a law that required Apple and these companies to create a backdoor, number one, criminals could figure that out and use it against you. And number two, there's already encrypted software that exists, not only now but in the future created in other countries. We would not be able tostop that.So there would still be encryption capabilities, it just wouldn't be American encryption capabilities but people in this country could have it. So that's why this is such a difficult issue because on the flip-side of it, there might be valuable information on that phone from the San Bernadino killers that could lead us to preventing future crimes or future attacks  future terrorist attacks.So I think we're either going to have a figure a way forward by working with Silicon Valley and the tech industry on this. There has to be a way to deal with this issue that continues to protect the privacy of Americans or creates some process by which, law enforcement and intelligence agencies could access encrypted information.I don't have a magic solution for it today. It's complicated, it's a new issue that's emerged just in the last couple of years. But I do know this, it will take a partnership between the technology industry and the government to confront and solve this.If you create a backdoor, there is a very reasonable possibility that a criminal gang could figure out what the backdoor is. That possibility is  if you create a backdoor, you're creating a vulnerability. And what you're not going to chance is the fact that other companies around the world who are not subject to U.S. laws  theycould create encryption technology that we'll never be able to get access to.So it's not as simple as people think it is. Now Apple is under court order and I'm sure they're going to appeal it. They need to follow whatever the court order is ultimatelyBut moving forward, we are going to have to work with Silicon Valley. We're going to have to with the tech Industry to figure out a way forward on encryption that allows us some capability to access information especially in an emergency circumstances where there might be information on there that could prevent a terrorist attack.Not if there's not a free Cuba. And I'll tell you the problem with the Cuban government; it's not just a communist dictatorship, it is an Anti-American communist dictatorship. The Cuban government three years ago helped North Korea evade U.S. Sanctions. They were caught trying to sell missile parts to North Korea but nothing happened.The Cuban government today harbors hundreds of fugitives of American judicial, Medicare fraud - there are people there who have stolen your money. They come to the U.S., they steal money  Medicare fraud, they go back to Cuba, the Cuban government's protecting them.The Cuban government is harboring a killer from New Jersey who killed a state trooper in New Jersey. The killer escaped jail, fled to Cuba and the Cuban government is protecting her.Beyond that, they're a repressive regime. There's no elections in Cuba, there's no choice in Cuba. And so my whole problem - I want the relationship between the U.S. an Cuba to change but it has to be reciprocal.Look at what we did with Burma or Myanmar, where the U.S. opened up to them but they made political changes. And today, the former minority party is now the majorit party in their legislative body because our change towards them was conditional on their change towards their people.He didn't even ask that of the Cuban government. And so today, a year and two months after the opening of Cuba, the Cuban government remains as repressive as ever. By now, they have access to millions to not billions of dollars in resources that they didn't have access to before this opening.He's probably not going to invite me.Probably not going to invite me. Probably not.Well, good. Let's finish it tonight.I like Dr. Carson as well...Yes.I think that's a great question. In fact, I believe I'm the only Republican candidate that consistently talks about student loan debt, and one of the reasons why is because three years ago I still owed over $100,000 in student loan debt. Which I was only able to pay off because I wrote a book, it's called an, "An American Son", now available in paperback.People always laugh, I love that joke - It's not a joke, it is available in paperback.So, I've actually worked, and I have a bipartisan agenda on this issue, and it comprises four main things. The first is alternative accrediting, OK? Today there are only six accrediting boards in the country. You can only award what is recognized as a four year degree if you are accredited by one of these six institutions.It's basically a monopoly because today in the 21st century we have the ability to learn multiple ways. You don't just have to sit in a classroom. There are so many different ways now to acquire information. And, so what I've pushed for is an alternative accrediting model that allows there to be an accredited learning outside of thetraditional school setting.For example, give people credit for what they learned through life experience, work experience, military experience. If you have mastered a subject, you should not be forced to sit in a classroom and pay to take a course on something you already know if you've proved you've already mastered it.This alternative accrediting model would allow us to do that, and there's already options out there. Coursera, Udacity, but they're not accredited so you can't use financial aid, and the private sector doesn't recognize it. I think we need to do that. That is especially important for non-traditional students.For example, let's say there's a single mother, she's a receptionist, she makes $11 dollars an hour. The only way she's ever going to get a raise is to go back to school and become a dental hygienist, or a paralegal. But, she can't go back to school because she has to work full-time during the day, and raise her kids at night.If there was an alternative accrediting model that allowed her to acquire learning on nights, on weekends through life experience, work experience, that gave her credit for what she learned in her years on the job it would at least shorten that time, if not allow her to complete that degree course.So, the first is alternative accrediting that would allow you to get the maximum number of credits without having to pay for it in a traditional institution.The second is an alternative to student loans called the student investment plan. And, this would allow you to go to a private investment group who would invest in you the way an investment group invests in a start-up business. In essence, they would believe in you so much, and in your success, that they would pay for your college. If you become financially successful, they're going to make their investment back with a profit. If you do not, they're going to lose their money and made a bad investment.But, all the risk is on them. The third is to make income based repayment the automatic method of repaying a loan. I actually have that law right now that I'm working on with Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia. And, why that is important is because I would rather collect $20 dollars a month from a student than nothing. Because if you're collecting $20 dollars, at least you're collecting $20 dollars a month and they're not defaulting on the debt, because if you default it ruins your credit, and no you can' buy a house, now you can't - it really hurts you.And, the fourth is called right to know before you go, which I'm working on with Ron Wyden, a Democrat from Oregon. And, what that law says is that before you take ou a loan, schools have to tell you how much people make when they graduate from that school with the degree that you're seeking. Why is that important?Number one, it will probably teach you that the market for Roman philosophers has tightened significantly. So, you may not want to borrow $50,000 dollars to be a Roman philosopher unless you're going to teach it, or go on to grad school.But, the other is it's going to allow you to compare schools. It's going to allow you to look at two different schools, and say I want to major in history. A history major from this school makes $50 grand a year, and it only costs $20,000 dollars. A history major from this school makes $50,000 dollars a year, but it costs $100,000 dollars.Now you have something to make a decision on other than the U.S. News and World Report college ranking. This is the kinds of things that I'm working on because to me this is deeply personal. When I graduated, when I got married, my first years, my largest payment after the rent was our student loan debt. It was over a thousand dollars a month.So, I always joke that I never met her, but I paid Sally May a lot of money over the years, and I want to avoid more - because today, higher education is a necessity. It is no longer a luxury. There are no good paying jobs without some skill, and or educational achievement in the 21st century. So, I do think it's a big issue, and I want us to work on it.Yeah.I didn't do well with Roman philosophy...Yes, sir.Yes, sir. First of all, thank you for your service.And I want to take this opportunity to thank all the veterans in South Carolina and across the country for the service they provided to our country.It is not just electing a commander-in-chief. That is the most important job of the president. The president doesn't run the economy. The private sector does. The presiden can be an advocate for legislative action that helps the economy grow.But national security and commander-in-chief is the most important job of the president. I say this to you without any reservation. I know I haven't lived as long as some o the people running for president, but no one running for president, especially on the Republican side, has more experience on national security or foreign policy than I do.As both a member of the Intelligence Committee and the Foreign Relations Committee over the last five years, I have been dealing with every single major issue that this country confronts. And I understand these issues well.I have a record of good judgment on those issues. In 2011, when Moammar Gadhafi was facing his overthrow in Libya, I argued that if that became a protracted conflict, i would leave a vacuum that would be filled by jihadists. And that's exactly what has happened.In 2012, when Bashar al-Assad was facing the threat of being overthrown in Syria, I warned that if we didn't empower non-jihadist rebels in Syria, they would be killed or exiled, and that vacuum that it left behind would be filled by a radical jihadist group. And that's what has happened with Jabhat al Nusra and now ISIS.When ISIS emerged and crossed over into Iraq, from the very beginning I warned that they would become a major threat if not confronted and defeated immediately. The president called them the JV team. Well, today they have affiliates in over a dozen countries.And they have - by the way, we saw what they did in San Bernardino, what they inspired in Paris as well.And so over the last five years that I've been involved in foreign policy and national security, I have proven time and again that I have both the judgment and the experienc to make the right decisions and the right call on these issues.The hardest vote I've ever taken in my time in the Senate was a war - was a vote to authorize the use of force in Syria. Talked about this in the debate the other night. It is the most difficult vote you'll ever take in Congress.And when Bashar al-Assad gassed his own people and poisoned them, President Obama announced that he would not take military action unless we in Congress authorize the use of that force.And so I examined - I was angry when I saw the images. I'm sure you saw the same images. As a father, I looked at these pictures of little children, curled up, some dead already because their own leader used poisoned gas and biological agents against them.And I was outraged and I wanted us to exact revenge on him. And then I looked at what the president was proposing. Something that John Kerry later called an attack tha would be unbelievably limited.That attack that the president wanted to carry out I concluded after looking at it would be counterproductive. It actually would have empowered Assad, because all he was going to do was a symbolic strike.Assad was going to emerge from it saying, I took on the U.S. and held on. It would have empowered him, it would have made him stronger, not weaker.And so no matter how angry I was, I concluded that I would not vote to authorize the use of force. And it was a tough decision because what I had seen in those images tha outraged us all.And so I can look at that field of candidates running today and tell you without any, any hesitation that no one running as a Republican has shown better judgment or has more experience on national security or on foreign policy than I do.Thank you, General. Sure. Well, I would just tell you that I believe Barack Obama is a failed president not because he was a one-term senator. Barack Obama today has seven years o presidential experience. There's only two people in the world that have more experience than he does being president, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton.And today, seven years after he became president, he is worse in the seventh year than he was in his first. So clearly experience was not the issue. The reason why he has failed as a president is because his ideas don't work. His philosophy, his ideology is a failed one.I also think it's unfair to say I have no experience. I have 15 years of experience of turning conservative ideas into conservative action. I served eight-and-a-half years in the Florida legislature, not as a back-bencher, but as a leader.We've been talking about eminent domain recently in the campaign. Florida has some of the best eminent domain laws in the country. You know who passed that law? I did. I was the speaker of the Florida House.As speaker of the Florida House, we brought career academies to our schools. That means today students in high schools in Florida graduate not just with a high school diploma, but certified to work as welders, plumbers, electricians, pipe-fitters in vocational training because of what we've put in.We've reduced property taxes because I led the effort to do that. We brought students in high schools in Florida graduate not just with a high school diploma, but certified to work as welders, plumbers, electricians, pipe fitters and vocational training, because of what we put in.We reduced property taxes because I led the effort to do that. We brought the Harlem's children zone model into the inner city of Miami. It's now spread into Orlando and to Jacksonville because of my efforts.We reformed our curriculum without common core, without the federal government and in my time in the U.S. Senate, despite the fact the Senate has not been the most active place in the world over the last five years, because I led the effort, in a bipartisan way, we imposed sanctions on Hezbollah. We get rid of the ObamaCare bailout fund.Today, we have the Girls Count Act I passed on a bipartisan basis, which leverages U.S. foreign aid to take on the scourge of human trafficking and modern-day slavery around the world.I led the effort and we imposed sanctions on human rights violators in Venezuela.So I'm proud of what I have achieved, but my campaign is not about the past, it's about the future, about what we're going to do.And I can say this to you without any, any hesitation whatsoever. I am as conservative as anyone running for president. But I am a 15 year conservative who has proven time and again the capability and the - and the willingness to take conservative ideas and turn them into conservative solutions.Hi, Patty.Well, I don't - I do not believe that the military is a place where we should be lowering standards in order to meet some sort of other goal. I believe that I'm open to people in both genders serving in combat, so long as they can meet the minimum requirements necessary for the job.And we can't weaken those standards in order to accommodate somebody into the job. That I believe in strongly because lives are on the line. And national security is on the line. By the way, there are plenty of men that can't meet those standards either.And so we should not lower standards for anyone because this is not - this is not - this is not a game. You are putting people into harm's way, where they have to be able no simply to do the job in front of them, but also to be able to protect the people that are working alongside them.And so for me, it's not about the gender, it's about the ability to do the job. And as president and as commander-in-chief, I will not lower standards in order to achieve som sort of societal aim.Good evening.Thank you.Yes, sir.That's an important question.First, let me begin by saying that the entire country was inspired by the way South Carolina, and in particular the people impacted in Mother Emanuel Church reacted to th shooting. I think the images of these family members who had lost loved ones saying on television, we forgive the killer, had an impact on the country that was profound.And I think it says a lot about South Carolina, but it also says a lot about a role that faith plays in the state.And if you ask people about it, they will tell you that the church is at the center of how not South Carolina responded, not just to that shooting, but to a previous police shooting and to a flood that was a 1,000 year event.Now, you talk about race relations. It's a difficult issue in this country. I can tell you, and I know a lot of it is centered around law enforcement and police departments.So let me begin by saying very clearly, I know for a fact that the overwomen - overwhelming majority of the men and women who serve us in law enforcement are incredible people, who, every single day, put their lives potentially on the line for our safety and for our security.But I also know - but I also know that there are communities in this country where minority communities and the police department have a terrible relationship. personally know someone who happens to be a police officer and a young African-American male, who told me that he has been pulled over seven, eight times in the lastfour years and never gets a ticket.What is he supposed to think?He gets pulled over for no reason, never gets a ticket, no one has any explanation for why he's being pulled over.What is he supposed to think?So I also know that in this country, there is a significant number, particularly of young African-American males, who feel as if they're treated differently than the rest of society. And here's the bottom line, whether you agree with them or not, I happen to have seen this happen.But whether you agree with them or not, if a significant percentage of the American family believes that they are being treated differently than everyone else, we have a problem. And we have to address it as a society and as a country, because I do not believe we can fulfill our potential as a nation unless we address that.I'm not sure there's a political solution that they are being treated differently than everyone else. We have a problem and we have to address it as a society and as a country because I do not believe that we can fulfill our potential as a nation unless we address that.I'm not sure it there's a political solution to that problem but there are things we can do. For example, one of the reasons why you see both educational and academic underperformance  not just in the African American community but also in the Hispanic comity is because of how a disproportionate number of our children are growingup in broken homes and dangerous neighborhoods.They're living in substandard housing and forced by the government to attend a failing school. A child that's born with four strikes against them is going to struggle to succeed unless something breaks that cycle. We've seen things that work.In New York City, Jeffrey Canada and the Harlem Children Zone has shown us what works. You get involved in the lives of children and you begin to address those strike against them. And you can see the same results you would get anywhere else in the country.So I do believe as a society, we have to confront this issue in a responsible way because ultimately, if a significant percentage of the American feels that they are locked ou the promise of America, we will never be able to fulfill our destiny as a great nation.You know, let me tell you a couple things, my parents were extraordinary people. My parents raised me to believe that it didn't matter that they came from Cuba and that he was a bartender and she was a maid. There was nothing that we couldn't do.I do recall as a child during the Boat Lift in growing up in Las Vegas that some of the neighborhood kids  older kids, one day were taunting my family. The were saying, "why don't go back on your boat, why don't you go back to your country, why don't leave here." I didn't know what they were talking about, I was seven years old.I said, "what boat  my mom doesn't even swim, she's afraid of water." And my parents had sit me down and explain that, "the Mariel Boat Lift is going on and people are really upset about it and they're hearing this stuff but don't blame the kids, they must be hearing it from somebody. That's why they're repeating it." So that disturbed me a a young child.But I've got to tell you that for the most part in my life, I never saw it as a reflection on America, I saw it as a reflection on those kids and what they were saying. What I give my parents a lot of credit is that they never raised us to feel that we were victims. They always raised us to believe that our destiny and our future  we lived in the on place on earth where if you worked hard and you persevered, you could achieve no matter what.That doesn't mean that I don't deny that there are people in this country that have had a different experience. We need to recognize that. If you look back at the history of this country we have some blemishes in our history that I believe even to this day, we're fighting through. But what I think is extraordinary about America is that we havefought through that.We are a nation of perpetual improvement. If you look at how far we've come as a country since the 1960's. If you look at how far South Carolina has come from where it is today to where it was 30 to 40 years ago, simply amazing. In my campaign for president today, I got the endorsement of a governor of Indian decent, who endorsed a presidential candidate of Cuban decent, and tomorrow will be campaigning alongside an African American Republican Senator, all three are doing that here inside SouthCarolina.That says a lot about the Republican party.Well first of all, let me just address the Fed issue, Douglas. That's not the Fed's job to stimulate the economy. The Fed is a central bank, it is not some sort of overlord of the economy. They're not some sort of special Jedi Counsel that can decide the best things for us.The Fed is a central bank. Their job is provide stable currency and I believe the should operate on a rules based system. They would have a very simple rule that determines when interest rates go up and when interestes rates goes down.Today, it's like a magic eight ball. We don't know when they're going to raise interest and it creates an incredible amount of uncertainty in the market place. Your question goes to the core of something deeper and then I'm going to get to the three points.We are living through a massive and rapid economic transformation. This is not an economic downturn. This is a massive economic transformation.We are having the industrial revolution every five years. You can be on the cutting edge of an industry today and in less than five years, you're obsolete. That is disruptive and itt's eliminating jobs that once sustained them. It's replacing it with new jobs but those new jobs require skills that many of our people may not have because theyhaven't been trained for it.So the first thing is, we have to make ourselves a friendlier place in a globally competitive economy. If you look at South Carolina, why is South Carolina attracting manufacturing? I'll tell you what it's doing, it's lowering it's taxes, it's reducing the regulatory burden  these things are important.So as president, I want us to lead  I want us to be an active and vibrant advocate for setting an agenda that we are going to simplify our tax code. We have the highest combined corporate tax rate in the world its taxes. It's reducing the regulatory burden. These things are important.So as president, I want us to lead - I want to be an active and vibrant advocate for setting an agenda that we are going to simplify our tax code. We have the highest combined corporate tax rate in the world. That's why I want to lower it to a flat rate of 25 percent on all businesses, including small businesses organized as subchapter S,and therefore their pass-throughs, paying as high as 39.5 percent.I want us to allow businesses, all businesses, to immediately expense every dollar they invest into their business. I want us to move to a territorial system of taxation. We are the last major industrial country that double taxes its companies from making money overseas.That's why you have $2 trillion of American corporate cash sitting overseas, $2 trillion is equivalent to the GDP of Russia. That's how much American corporate cash is no being invested here and instead is being invested overseas.Regulatory reform is important. I've proposed a regulatory budget, a regulatory budget that says we're going to put a hard cap on how much federal regulations can cost ou economy.And that will force agencies to reduce regulations and it will say if you're going to add a new regulation, you're going to have to cut an existing one because regulations are a burden.The third thing that we're going to have to address in order to get our economy growing is the national debt. It stands at $19 trillion with close to $100 trillion in unfunded liabilities.We will have a debt crisis in America soon if we do not address it. In less than five years, 83 percent of the federal budget will be consumed by Medicare, Medicaid, Socia Security, and the interest on the debt.That means we will only have 17 percent of our budget left for everything else, including the military. That's unacceptable. That's a debt crisis.And so I want us to save Social Security and Medicare. And we can do it without disrupting it for people that are on it now. My mother is on Social Security and Medicare. I am against any changes to those programs that's bad for my mother, which is a pretty good policy.But it won't look the same for me. I'm going to - instead of retiring at 67, I may have to retire at 68. If I was still in the senate, I'd be one of the youngest people there.If I had made a lot of money, my Social Security benefits may not grow as fast as they grow for someone who made less money. Medicare could be the option of taking my money and using it to buy a private plan that I like better. Medicare Advantage provides that somewhat now.These are not unreasonable changes. They're not too much to ask of me, who is 25 years away from retirement, in exchange for balancing our budget, bringing our debt under control, and leaving Social Security and Medicare undisturbed for current beneficiaries.You deal with our debt, you roll back regulations, you scale down our tax code, and you are going to see America lead the world in the 21st Century economy. We fail to d that, we remain stagnant like we are right now.Thank you. 
Well, I respect her very much. I would just say a couple things. There is now an 80 year precedent on this that in the last year of President's term, the Senate usuall doesn't move forward, not just on Supreme Court nominations, but on appellate judges because you're appointing someone to a lifetime appointment, theoretically, to the Supreme Court.So, there's going - the Supreme Court can function with eight Justices. And, then their term will end, a new one will begin in October, and they'll be an election in November. And, this is going to be an issue in the campaign. Voters are going to ask of the Presidential candidates what kind of justice are you going to appoint? There's going to be an election, and then the new president will have an opportunity to nominate someone, and the Senate to confirm them.So, that's the approach I support.No, I would respect that president. And it is true, there's nothing in the Constitution that says he can't nominate someone. There's also nothing in the Constitution that says the Senate must immediately confirm them.So, bottom line is that there will be someone filling that vacancy, and I think the new president should be the person who fills that vacancy. Look, it may not be a Republican. I think it's going to be a Republican, that's what I want it to be, but I think it's going to be an issue in this campaign, and the voters are going to be able to weigin on it in November.Hi, Amber.Good evening, good.Thank you for the question. I have three educators in my family, elementary school, and I hear the exact same thing because ultimately our schools are inheriting whatever society sends them in the morning. And, I touched on that briefly a moment ago.If a child is being raised in a broken home, living in substandard housing, no access to healthcare, and facing these other challenges you talked about. This child faces significant obstacles, and they need to be addressed. The question is what can government do about it because ultimately there's no law I can pass to make people better parents. And, no matter how hard you try, and how much you want to help, there's only so much you can do about that as well.I do think we need to empower parents. It's one of the reasons why my tax plan that I've proposed increased the per child tax credit. I've been criticized for that by, for example, the Wall Street Journal and others. They don't like the per-child tax credit, but I don't understand why do we live in a country where a business invests money in a piece of equipment, they get to write it off their taxes. But if a working parent invests more money in their children they don't get to write that off their taxes.This is their money. What I'm arguing is that working parents should be allowed to keep more of their own money so that they have the resources that it takes to raise their children. It's expensive to raise children in the 21st century. My tax plan recognizes that.But, ultimately, I think your question goes to the core of something we need to remind ourselves...RUBIO: This is their money. What I'm arguing is that working parents should be allowed to keep more of their own money so that they have the resources that it takes to raise their children. It's expensive to raise children in the 21st century. My tax plan recognizes that.But, ultimately, I think your question goes to the core of something we need to remind ourselves there is not a federal government solution to every problem in our country That does not mean that our leaders should not spend the time to tell people that what happens in our house - what happens your house is often times much more important than what happens in the White House.The most important job I will ever have will not be President of the United States, it will be to be a father of my four children. And, I think that's important for us as a society to continue to understand, that you cannot have a strong country without strong people. You cannot have strong people without strong values. And, you cannot hav strong values without strong families.No One is born with strong values, they have to be instilled in you in a strong home. And, while government cannot make families stronger, it most certainly can do things to help families like allowing them to keep more of their hard earned money, and most importantly, not having any laws, whether it's in our safety net program, or our tax code, that discourages marriage or undermine parenting.No, I wanted to play in the NFL, and I would have had it not been for my lack of speed, size and talent.But, I always had an interest in public service. My grandfather was very - actually, it's great to be here today. My grandfather, one of the jobs he had growing as a young man was a cigar reader in the front of a cigar factory. In Cuba they didn't have T.V. or radio at the time - they did, but they didn't have it in the cigar factory.And, so he would read newspapers and novels to the workers. And, as a result, became a very well read person, and he instilled in me, kind of, this interest in politics, and world affairs. And, I think that was a seed that grew over time in me. But, I didn't know - no one can predict you're going to be at a setting like I am here today.But, I always had somewhat of an interest in it, but I thought I'd be an NFL player, and an NFL coach before I got to this point. We obviously fast forwarded past the NFL part, and got this part.I think almost everyone does, Jason.Yes, sir. I believe that America must always continue to be a place that allows people seeking refuge from political persecution and violence to come.Here's the difference between Reagan's world, and the one we live in now. Because, policies have to reflect the times in which you live. When Ronald Reagan was Presiden of the United States, there did not exist a radical jihadist group that was attempting to use the immigration laws of other countries against those countries. And, that's the threat we now face.It's the reason why, for example, in America there was a time in many communities when nobody locked their doors. No everybody locks their doors. And, it isn't because we hate people outside of our home, it's because we love the people inside of our home.And, so today, in the process by which we accept people into the United State is going to have to be different. We know for a fact that ISIS, for example, has captured key places in Syria where passports are produced. And, so you've seen open sourced reporting that today ISIS has the capability of basically creating legitimate Syrian passportexcept the picture and the name is not exactly who it says it is.This is a real threat for America. If we accept 10,000 Syrian refugees tomorrow, and 9,999 of them were good people, and one of them was an ISIS killer, we have a big problem. We have to be 100% right given the threat we now face.So, what I've said is it's not about a religious test, it's not about discrimination. It's just that we have to be 100% right. And, that means that our vetting process must be stricter than it's ever been. Here's the hard truth, it's almost impossible to vet people now from that part of the world. We don't have a database to rely on. You can't just call up 1-800-Syria and ask them, "Do you know so-and-so," and, "do you know who they are, and why they're coming?"It's just become harder and harder to vet people from certain parts of the world. So, my point is we'll always be a country that's open to refugees, but in the 21st century, if we don't know who you are, and we don't know why you're coming 100% for sure, we're not going to be able to allow you to come in because the threat we face is so significant now, and so real.That's a great question.First of all, I think we need to remember that in this country we're blessed that we have - in this country, we solve through elections what other countries solve through civi wars. And that's just in America.Just have some perspective here. The worst thing that happens to someone in the political process is you lose an election. They say nasty things about you and they run a bad ad about you.In other countries, if you lose an election, you go to jail or you go into exile. So we're blessed to be living in a republic where we have strong disagreements about the futur of our country but they are settled at the ballot box, not at the tip of a gun or a spear.That said, you're right that we're going to - if we want to win an election, we're going to ultimately have to come together. And I believe I already provide that. There's a reason why virtually every candidate in this field has attacked me. Because I run a campaign that I believe appeals to the broad sector of the Republican electorate.Now they don't all agree with me on every issue. But we've basically campaigned to every voter in the Republican coalition.But my promise to you if I'm the nominee is, I'm not just going to unify the Republican Party, I'm going to grow it. We're going to take our message to people that haven't voted for Republicans in a long time.And they haven't voted for us because the left and the Democrats have told them that the Republican Party is the party of the rich people and the Democrats are the party o the working people.That's one of the biggest lies in American politics. The Democratic Party, which today is led, apparently according to the polls, by a devout avowed democratic socialist, has become a far left party. And they are the party of big government.Big government hurts people that are trying to make it, because the bigger the government, the more the people that influence government win at the expense of everybody else.Look at Dodd-Frank. It passed. The big banks are bigger today than ever. The regional banks and the community banks are getting wiped out.So we have a message and we're going to take it, we're going to take our message to people living paycheck to paycheck. You know why I know I can take that message t them? Because I grew up paycheck to paycheck.Because my wife and I have lived paycheck to paycheck. Because I've written a check on Wednesday knowing that the money doesn't get there until Friday, so I date it Saturday. I've had to do that. I know what that feels like.We're going to take our message to young Americans struggling under thousands of dollars in student loan debt. We're going to be the party of the single mom that is struggling to raise her children on $11 an hour because we're going to be the party that makes it easier for her to go back to school and get the degree that allows her to find a better-paying job.We're going to take our message to parents raising their children in the 21st Century, because my wife and I are raising four children right now. We know how hard it is to instill in our children the values that they teach in our church instead of the values that the culture tries to ram down our throat.My goal is not just to unify the party, but to grow it. And ultimately to unify our country. That doesn't mean everyone is going to agree with me on everything. But I'm going to be a president for all Americans, even the people that don't vote for me, I'm going to cut their taxes, too.I'm going to be a president for all Americans, because an American president has to love the American people, even those that don't love you back. And that's what I intend to do.Donald smiles. I've seen him smile.I don't know, this back and forth is silly. In the end, look, if somebody says something about me that isn't true, I'm going to correct the record, Anderson. But ultimately, it's not about me, it's not about Ted, it's not about Donald.It's about what is this country going to look like when my 15-year-old daughter graduates from college. What is it going to look like when he buys her first home or tries t start her first business? What is it going to look like when my 8-year-old son does the same?2016 is a turning point. And I honestly believe we only have two ways forward. We are either going to be the first Americans that leave their children worse off than themselves or we are going be the authors of a new American century, the greatest era in our history.That's a pretty dramatic choice. I believe 2016 is about that. And when the stakes are that high, that's what I'm going to spend 99 percent of my time talking about.Well, I'd like to think she liked me first, but I liked her first.So I was playing sand volleyball at a park in West Miami, Florida, and saw this really cute girl sitting there. And I started asking questions about her. But month would go by. I finally didn't really get to know her until my college roommate was dating her best friend and introduced us.And it took a little while to convince her that I was the right person. But we were dating for seven years. We got married in 1998. It has been one of the most blessed things that has ever happened to me in my life. I'm truly blessed to have not just a godly and wonderful wife and partner in life, but also been blessed by four incrediblechildren.And I tell people all the time, I mean, that's an extraordinary blessing that - that's why I have so much peace...
Been one of the most blessed things that's ever happened to me in my life. I'm - I'm truly blessed to have not just a godly and wonderful wife and partner in life but I've also been blessed by four incredible children.And I tell people all the time, I mean that's an extraordinary blessing that it - that's what I have so much peace about, no matter what happens.I'm running for president. I'd love to be your president. But my kids are going to love me no matter what happens and - and so if my wife. And I'm just blessed by that.I'd like to. I'll have to talk to the Secret Service about it. Absolutely, in whatever they do.But for me, sports has been an incredible teacher of life - life lessons. You know, I was a little bit disappointed by what happened in New Hampshire and I thought I had myself to blame. And the lessons that I applied to that disappointment came from sports.I used to play defensive back. And, uh, I got beat from time to time on a pass play. You're going to if you're a corner back. You've got to put that behind you, because you've got another play coming up and you've got to make up for it on the next play.I learned that lesson from athletics.And so for me, as much as anything else, sports has been a way for me to instill life lessons in my children, particularly how to deal with failure, how to deal with disappointment and how to work alongside other people in order to achieve a goal.Yes. I do - well, we - we try to make it as safe as we possibly can. Football has inherent danger. So does competitive stunt cheerleading. My daughter used to d that. So does driving a car to work and back.So there's risks inherent in a lot of activity. I ultimately think football is an incredible sport. It teaches lessons, life lessons, that are - that I think are valuable.You can make the game safer. You can ek - never make it entirely safe, and so we do spend a lot of the time coaching kids how to properly tackle, not use your head, very different from when - when I was growing up and they taught you to use your head to tackle, so.And the Democrats say that explains a lot about Marco Rubio, but it's not true.But my point is it's - it's a sport that brings with it some inherent danger, but so does life. And we try to make it as safe as possible. I am.Yes, well, we basically are now sticking to like reds and blues and grays and blues because I have trouble distinguishing between blue and black, blue and purple, green and blue...Yes.I didn't know until people started telling me hey, that's a nice green shirt.I go what green, the blue one I have on?No, it's green. So I - yes, I struggle with it.I do.Yes. It's - I don't want people - maybe people thought it was something else.I've never been to a rave, no. I've never been to a rave.It's the Republican primary, Anderson.No, I listen to it. I think I'm a little too old to be going to a rave.Well, I have the boots for it. I don't know if you saw that on TV or not, but, no, here's the thing about it. I actually grew up listening to '90s hip-hop music, especially the West Coast stuff. And I really liked it. But the - in the last few years, what's happened with EDM, you've got these electronic - these disc jockeys or these DJs that are taking electronic music and overlaying it with tracks from country music and all sorts of things and so the lyrics are clean. The beats and music is fun. I've gotten into it. It's a lot of fun.Yes, they - I mean there's - the words are clean. Sometimes they have no words at all. It's electronic dance music, so that's perfect. I don't have to worry about th lyrics.Thank you, Anderson.Thank you so much.