Well, you know, David, the assessment the voters are making here in New Hampshire and across the country is they are evaluating each and every one of us. They are looking to our experience. They are looking to our knowledge. They are looking to our temperament and judgment. They are looking to our clarity of vision and our strength of resolve.The world is getting much more dangerous. We've had seven years with Barack Obama in the oval office, a commander-in-chief that is unwilling even to acknowledge the enemy we're facing. This is a president who, in the wake of Paris, in the wake of San Bernardino, will not even use the words radical Islamic terrorism, much less focus on defeating the enemy.I am convinced every individual standing on this stage, would make a much better commander-in-chief than Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders.
And the primary voters are making the assessment for each of us, who is best prepared to keep this country safe, to rebuild the military, to rebuild our Navy, our Air Force, our Army, our Marines, and to ensure that we keep America safe.
I think that is an assessment the voters are going to make. And they are going to make it of each and everyone of us. They are going to assess who is level-headed, who has clear vision, who has judgment, who can confront our enemies, who can confront the threats we face in this country, and who can have the judgment when to engage and when not to engage -- both are incredibly important for a commander-in-chief, knowing how to go after our enemies.In the case of Iran, for example, who has the clarity of vision to understand that the Ayatollah Khamenei, when he chants, "Death to America," he means it. We need a president with the judgment and resolve to keep this country safe from radical Islamic terrorists.Ben is a good and honorable man and Ben and Candy have become friends. He has an amazing life story that has inspired millions, including me. When this transpired, I apologized to him then and I do so now. Ben, I'm sorry.Let me tell you the facts of what occurred for those who are interested in knowing. On Monday night, about 6:30 p.m., CNN reported that Ben was not going from Iowa to New Hampshire or South Carolina. Rather, he was, quote, "Taking a break from campaigning."They reported that on television, CNN's political anchors, Jake Tapper and Dana Bash and Wolf Blitzer, said it was highly unusual and highly significant. My political team saw CNN's report breaking news and they forwarded that news to our volunteers, it was being covered on live television.Now, at the time, I was at the caucuses, I was getting ready to speak at the caucuses just like Ben was, just like everyone else was. I knew nothing about this. A couple hours later, I found out about it. I was told that Ben was unhappy. I called him that evening because I respect him very, very highly. I didn't reach him that evening.I reached him the next day and apologized. He asked me then, he said, Ted, would you make this apologize in public? I said, yes, I will. And I did so. I regret that subsequently, CNN reported on that -- they didn't correct that story until 9:15 that night. So from 6:30 p.m. to 9:15, that's what CNN was reporting.Subsequent to that initial report, Ben's campaign put out a statement saying that he was not suspending his campaign. I wish that our campaign staff had forwarded that statement. They were unaware of it, I wish that they had, that's why I apologized.Well, I would note, initially the fact that we're seeing the launch, and we're seeing the launch from a nuclear North Korea is the direct result of the failures of the first Clinton administration. The Clinton administration led the world in relaxing sanctions against North Korea. Billions of dollars flowed into North Korea in exchange for promises not to build nuclear weapons. They took those billions and built nuclear weapons.And, I would note also the lead negotiator in that failed North Korea sanctions deal was a woman named Wendy Sherman who Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton promptly recruited to come back to be the lead negotiator with Iran. So, what we are seeing with North Korea is foreshadowing of where we will be with Iran.With respect to North Korea and what we should do now, one of the first things we should do is expand our missile defense capacity. We ought to put missile defense interceptors in South Korea. South Korea wants them. One of the real risks of this launch, North Korea wants to launch a satellite, and one of the greatest risks of the satellite is they would place a nuclear device in the satellite. As it would orbit around the Earth, and as it got over the United States they would detonate that nuclear weapon and set of what's called an EMP, and electromagnetic pulse which could take down the entire electrical grid on the Eastern seaboard, potentially killing millions.We need to harden the grid to defend ourselves, and we need missile defense to protect ourselves against North Korea.
You know, at this point I'm not going to speculate on that without the intelligence briefing that any Commander in Chief would have, knowing what exactly is there.Actually, with respect, I have gotten the intelligence briefings on the Mid-East. Those have been going on for many years. I haven't gotten the intelligence briefing tonight on what North Korea's doing because I'm here in new Hampshire. When you're responding to an immediate incident, you need to know the intelligence of what's occurring.
But what I was saying -- look, it is qualitatively different dealing with a country once they have nuclear weapons. It's why you prevent them from getting nuclear weapons in the first place -- because your hands are somewhat tied once they have nukes.It's why this Iranian nuclear deal is so catastrophic, and it's why I've pledged, on the very first day in office, to rip to shreds this Iranian nuclear deal so we're not sitting here in five years, wondering what to do about an Iranian missile launch when they have nuclear weapons. The stakes are too high for that.So, in terms of a practical solution, I've laid out the most detailed plan for solving illegal immigration. It's 11 pages, single-spaced, chapter and verse. It's on our website, tedcruz.org.In short, we're going to do, we're going to build a wall. We're going to triple the border patrol. We're going to increase -- and actually, since Donald enjoyed that, I will simply say, I've got somebody in mind to build it.We're going to increase four-fold, the fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft, so that you have technology monitoring an attempted incursion to direct the boots on the ground where they're occurring. We're going to put in place a strong e-verify system in the workplace, so you can't get a job without proving you are here legally.
We'll put in place a biometric exit-entry system on visas, because 40 percent of illegal immigration comes not over the border illegally, but people coming on visas and overstaying.We will end sanctuary cities by cutting off taxpayer dollars to any jurisdiction that defies federal immigration law.And we will end welfare benefits for those here illegally.
What you do is, you enforce the law. You know, under the Constitution, the president has an obligation to, quote, "Take care that the laws be faithfully executed." Federal immigration law provides, if someone is here illegally and is apprehended, they are to be deported.We saw just this past week the head of the border patrol union testify before Congress that President Obama had given the order to the border patrol to stand down, not to enforce the law. That is wrong. I will enforce the law, and for everyone who says, you can't possibly do that, I would note that in eight years, Bill Clinton deported 12 million people.In eight years, George W. Bush deported 10 million people. Enforcing the law -- we can do it. What is missing is the political will. And when they were deporting the people, the border wasn't secure, so they'd come right back. Once you secure the border, enforcing the law will solve this problem and that will benefit American workers.
Good evening.
Well, let me take two different parts of that. Let me start with socialized medicine. Socialized medicine is a disaster. It does not work. If you look at the countries that have imposed socialized medicine, that have put the government in charge of providing medicine, what inevitably happens is rationing.You have a scarcity of doctors. You have rationing. And that means the elderly are told, we're going to ration a hip replacement, we're going to ration a knee replacement. We're going to ration end- of-life care.We're right now heading into a medical system with about a 90,000-doctor shortage in America and socialized medicine; whether proposed by the Democrats or proposed by a Republican would hurt the people of this country.What should we do on health care? If I'm elected president, we will repeal every word of Obamacare.
And once we do that, we will adopt common sense reforms, number one, we'll allow people to purchase health insurance across state lines that will drive down prices and expand the availability of low cost catastrophic insurance.We'll expand health savings accounts; and we will de-link health insurance from employment so that you don't lose your health insurance when you lose your job, and that way health insurance can be personal, portable and affordable and we keep government from getting in between us and our doctors.

Well, sure. It starts with a commander-in-chief that sets the objective. And the objective has to be utterly and completely destroying ISIS. Obama hasn't started with that objective and everything else flows from there.Once you set that objective, we have the tools to carry that out. The first tool is overwhelming air power. It is one of the blessings of the United States of America, having the greatest military on the face of the earth, is we have the ability to use that air power.As you know, in the first Persian Gulf War, it was 1,100 air attacks a day. Obama is launching between 15 and 30. Now, when I say saturation carpet bombing, that is not indiscriminate.That is targeted at oil facilities. It's targeted at the oil tankers. It's targeted at command and control locations. It's targeted at infrastructure. It's targeted at communications. It's targeted at bombing all of the roads and bridges going in and out of Raqqa. It's using overwhelming air power.You know, couple of weeks ago, it was reported that a facility is open called Jihadist University. Now, the question I wonder, why is that building still standing? It should be rubble. And if you had a president all though I will say this. I would be willing to wait until freshman orientation before launching those bombs. 
Martha, I will tell you, I have visited with active duty military, with veterans over and over and over again in town halls all over the state of New Hampshire. What we are doing to our sons and daughters, it is immoral. We are sending them into fight with their arms tied behind their back. They cannot defend themselves. And it is wrong.
And I will tell you this. Look. America has always been reluctant to use military force. It's the last step we take. But if and when we use it when it comes to defeating ISIS, we should use it. We should use overwhelming force, kill the enemy and then get the heck out. Don't engage in nation-building but instead, allow our soldiers to do their jobs instead of risking their lives with politicians making it impossible to accomplish the objective.
Absolutely, yes.
Well, under the definition of torture, no, it's not. Under the law, torture is excruciating pain that is equivalent to losing organs and systems, so under the definition of torture, it is not. It is enhanced interrogation, it is vigorous interrogation, but it does not meet the generally recognized definition of torture. would not bring it back in any sort of widespread use. And indeed, I joined with Senator McCain in legislation that would prohibit line officers from employing it because I think bad things happen when enhanced interrogation is employed at lower levels.But when it comes to keeping this country safe, the commander in chief has inherent constitutional authority to keep this country safe. And so, if it were necessary to, say, prevent a city from facing an imminent terrorist attack, you can rest assured that as commander in chief, I would use whatever enhanced interrogation methods we could to keep this country safe.
Well, thank you for that question. You know, there are three avenues of presidential authority to change the direction of this country. The first is executive power, the second is foreign policy, and the third is legislation. Executive power, as we all know, has been the preferred vehicle of President Obama, abusing his authority, abusing his constitutional authority.Now, the silver lining of that is everything done with executive power can be undone with executive power, so I have pledged on day one I will rescind every single illegal and unconstitutional executive action Barack Obama has done. That means on day one his efforts to restrict the Second Amendment go away with the strike of a pen. That means on day one his illegal executive amnesty goes away with the strike of a pen.The reason I can end Common Core at the federal level is because Obama is abusing executive power using Race to the Top funds in the Department of Education to force it on the states. That's one avenue.The second avenue of change is foreign policy, and foreign policy can change the fastest. It's worth remembering that Iran released our hostages the day Reagan was sworn in. And, the third is legislation, and that can only be done with the people behind you, which is why the two big legislative initiatives I'm campaigning on are repealing Obamacare, and adopting a simple flat tax to abolish the IRS.Well, Josh, as you noted, this is a problem that, for me, I understand first-hand. My older sister, Myriam, who was my half- sister, struggled her whole life with drug and alcohol addiction. My father and her mom divorced when she was a little girl and she was angry her whole life, and she ended up marrying a man who had been in and out of jail. She then became a single mom and she herself went to jail several times and she ended up spending some time in a crack house.
I still remember my father and me driving up to get Myriam out of that crack house to try to convince her she needed to be a mom to -- to my nephew Joey.She wasn't willing to listen. She was not willing to change the path she was on. She was angry. I was -- had just gotten my first job coming out of law school. I took a $20,000 loan on a credit card to put my nephew, Joey, in Valley Forge Military Academy -- he was in sixth grade at the time, to pay his way through that.And about five, six years ago, Miriam died of an overdose. It was -- the coroner ruled it accidental. We don't know. She went to one night, had taken too many pills, and Joey walked in and found her dead.This is an absolute epidemic. We need leadership to solve it. Solving it has to occur at the state and local level with programs like A.A., and counseling, and churches and charities. But it also has to be securing the borders, because you have got Mexican cartels that are smuggling vast amounts of heroin into this country.We know how to secure the borders. What is missing is the political will to do it.And as president, I will secure the border, we will end this deluge of drugs that is flowing over our southern border and that is killing Americans across this country.Well, look, I recognize it is an agonizing experience when anyone is facing a loved -- loved member who's been kidnapped. But at the same time, putting in place legal regimes that encourage the payment of ransom has the effect of putting a bounty on other Americans. There is a reason it has been longstanding U.S. policy that we don't negotiate with terrorists, we don't pay ransoms.If you look at what President Obama has done over and over again, whether it was the James Bergdahl deal, which was absolutely shameful, releasing five senior Taliban terrorists to bring Bergdahl back, or whether it was this recent deal with Iran, where, again, up to 21 terrorists or potential terrorists were -- were released or not prosecuted in order to bring back four Americans, what that does -- does is it effectively puts a bounty on American servicemen and women serving abroad, on American tourists traveling abroad.And the proper approach is a president and commander in chief that defends this country and that goes after -- goes after the terrorists, rather than showing them weakness and encouraging them to target more Americans.With an eye to February 20th, Carolina.You know, every candidate running for president says they will stand up to Washington. The natural follow up question is when have you ever stood up to Washington.Last week we saw a powerful illustration of that. I campaigned in the state of Iowa four-square (ph) against the ethanol mandate, something everyone said was political suicide. My two leading competitors both attacked me for it. The governor of the state said vote for anyone but Cruz, and lobbyists spent millions of dollars in attack ads, but I stood and said we should have no mandates, a level playing field, and the people of Iowa put country and our children above the cronyism and corporate welfare we can turn this country around if we get back to the Constitution. And, I will always stand with the American people against the bipartisan corruption of Washington.
Well, Megyn, let me say at the outset to the men and women of Iowa, thank you for the incredible hospitality over this past year.By Monday, you will have welcomed me into all 99 counties in Iowa. You will have welcomed my dad to preach at your churches. You will have welcomed Heidi and our girls, Caroline and Catherine, into your homes. And I'm so grateful for the diligence, for the seriousness with which the men and women of Iowa approach this process.If I am elected president, keep an eye on the tarmac, because I'll be back, because Iowa in 2017 will not be fly-over country. It will be fly-to country.
Now, secondly, let me say I'm a maniac and everyone on this stage is stupid, fat, and ugly. And Ben, you're a terrible surgeon.
Now that we've gotten the Donald Trump portion out of the way... I want to thank everyone here for showing the men and women of Iowa the respect to show up and make the case to the people of this state and the people of the country why each of us believe we would make the best commander in chief.
Well, let me be clear, if Donald engages in insults or anybody else, I don't intend to reciprocate. I have not insulted Donald personally and I don't intend to.I am glad Donald is running. I'm glad he has produced enormous enthusiasm, and, every Donald Trump voter or potential voter, I hope to earn your support. I know everyone else on this stage hopes to earn your support.Now, there is a difference between personal insults and attacks -- between going into the mud with ad hominems and focusing on issues and substance.
I think issues and substance, policy and vision and record should be the meat of politics. That's fair game but that's where I'm going to focus. That's how I focused from the beginning of the campaign and it is how I intend to continue going forward.
Well, I agree with Rand that I very much respect Ron Paul and that I think anyone who is able to win in the Republican Party has to be able to bring together the disparate elements of the Reagan coalition. You've got to be able to bring together conservatives and evangelicals and libertarians, and stitch together a winning majority.When it comes to the audit the Fed bill, as Rand knows well, I was an original sponsor of the bill, I'm strongly supportive of it. It didn't have the votes to pass. And I had commitments to be at a town hall in New Hampshire.But I look forward to signing that bill into law as president and auditing the Fed and providing needed accountability at the Federal Reserve.
Well, Chris, I will apologize to nobody for the vigorousness with which I will fight terrorism, go after ISIS, hunt them down wherever they are, and utterly and completely destroy ISIS.
You know, you claim it is tough talk to discuss carpet bombing. It is not tough talk. It is a different, fundamental military strategy than what we've seen from Barack Obama. Barack Obama right now, number one, over seven years, has dramatically degraded our military. You know, just two weeks ago was the 25th anniversary of the first Persian Gulf war. When that war began, we had 8,000 planes. Today, we have about 4,000. When that war began, we had 529 ships. Today, we have 272.You want to know what carpet bombing is? It's what we did in the first Persian Gulf war; 1,100 air attacks a day, saturation bombing that utterly destroyed the enemy. Right now, Barack Obama is launching between 15 and 30 air attacks a day. He's not arming the Kurds. We need to define the enemy. We need to rebuild the military to defeat the enemy. And we need to be focused and lift the rules of engagement so we're not sending our fighting men and women into combat with their arms tied behind their backs.Chris, in 1981, when Ronald Reagan came to the Oval Office, he encountered a military that had been debilitated just as the current military has, just like Jimmy Carter weakened our readiness, undermined our ability to defend this country, so too has Barack Obama. Just as morale in the military has plummeted in the last seven, so it had then.What Reagan did is he began with tax reform and regulatory reform, unleashing the engine of the American free enterprise system. It brought booming economic growth and that growth fueled rebuilding the military. I intend to do the exact same thing to defeat radical Islamic terrorism and to devote the resources from the booming economy to rebuilding our Navy, rebuilding our Air Force, rebuilding our Army and ensuring we have the capacity to keep this country safe.
Chris? Chris I was mentioned in that question.
Chris, I would note that that the last four questions have been, "Rand, please attack Ted. Marco, please attack Ted. Chris, please attack Ted. Jeb, please attack Ted..."
Let me just say this...
Well, no, no. A debate actually is a policy issue, but I will say this. Gosh, if you guys ask one more mean question I may have to leave the stage.
Chris, the most important determination any voter is going to make in this election is who's best prepared to be Commander in Chief. Who has the experience, who has the knowledge, who has the judgement, who has the clarity, and vision and strength of resolve to keep this country safe. That is what this debate is all about, and I would suggest let's stay focused on those issues -- rather than just attacks directed at each other.
Sure. Well, let's take it one at a time. First of all, we have seen now in six years of Obamacare that it has been a disaster. It is the biggest job-killer in this country. Millions of Americans have lost their jobs, have been forced into part-time work, have lost their health insurance, have lost their doctors, have seen their premiums skyrocket.If I'm elected president, we will repeal every word of Obamacare.
Now, once that is done, everyone agrees we need healthcare reform. It should follow the principles of expanding competition, empowering patients, and keeping government from getting in between us and our doctors.Three specific reforms that reflect those principles. Number one, we should allow people to purchase health insurance across state lines. That will create a true 50-state national marketplace which will drive down the cost of low-cost, catastrophic health insurance.Number two, we should expand health savings accounts so people can save in a tax-advantaged way for more routine healthcare needs. And number three, we should work to de-link health insurance from employment so if you lose your job, your health insurance goes with you and it is personal, portable and affordable.And I'll tell you, Bret, I think that's a much more attractive vision for healthcare than the Washington-drive, top- down Obamacare that is causing so many millions of people to hurt.I want this bill to be voted down. I don't want immigration reform to fail. I want immigration reform to pass. I believe if this amendment were to pass, the chances of this bill passing into law would increase dramatically.I believe if the amendments I introduced were adopted, that the bill would pass. And my effort in introducing them was to find a solution that reflected common ground and that fixed the problem.
If the proponents of this bill actually demonstrate a commitment not to politics, not to campaigning all the time, but to actually fixing this problem, to finding a middle ground. That would fix the problem, and also allow, for those 11 million people who are here illegally, a legal status, with citizenship off the table.
You know, the amendment you're talking about is one sentence -- it's 38 words. Anyone can go online at tedcruz.org and read exactly what it said. In those 38 words, it said anyone here illegally is permanently ineligible for citizenship. It didn't say a word about legalization. 
But -- but Megyn, the bill was 1,000 pages. I introduced a series of amendments, each designed to fix problems in the bill. The fact that each amendment didn't fix every problem didn't mean that I supported the rest of the bill.And I'll tell you who supported my amendment -- Jeff Sessions, the strongest opponent of amnesty in the United States Congress. And he did so because taking citizenship off the table was important, and it revealed the hypocrisy of the proponents of this bill, who were looking for votes.Listen, we can solve immigration. We just heard an argument back and forth that we can't solve immigration. I have a detailed immigration plan that is on my website, tedcruz.org. It was designed with Iowa's own Congressman Steve King and Jeff Sessions, and we have the tools in federal law to do this now. We can build the fence. We can triple the border patrol. We can end sanctuary cities by cutting off funding to them. We can end welfare for those here illegally. And what is missing is the political will, because too many Democrats and, sadly, too many Republicans don't want to solve this problem. If I am elected president we will secure the border and we will end the illegal immigration.
You know, John Adams famously said, "facts are are stubborn things." The facts are are very, very simple. When that battle was waged, my friend Senator Rubio chose to stand with Barack Obama and Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer and support amnesty.And I stood alongside Jeff Sessions and Steve King, and we led the fight against amnesty. And if you want to know who's telling the truth, you should look and ask people like Jeff Sessions and Steve King and Rush Limbaugh and Mark Levin, all of whom say, as Jeff Sessions said, responding to these false attacks just recently in Alabama -- he said, "if it wasn't for Ted Cruz, the Gang of Eight Rubio/Schumer bill would have passed. But because Ted stood up and helped lead the effort, millions rose up to kill it.You know, I like Marco. He's very charming. He's very smooth. But the facts are simple. When he ran for election in the state of Florida, he told the people of Florida, "if you elect me, I will lead the fight against amnesty."When I ran in Texas, I told the people of Texas, "if you elect me, I will lead the fight against amnesty." We both made the identical promises. But when we came to Washington, we made a different choice.Marco made the choice to go the direction of the major donors -- to support amnesty because he thought it was politically advantageous.
I honored my commitments, and as president, I will honor every commitment that I make to the men and women of this country.
And I'll tell you the endorsements that I am proud of are the over 200,000 volunteers across this country who have signed up to volunteer for our campaign. The endorsements that I am proud of are leading conservatives like Iowa's own Congressman Steve King, who is a national co-chairman of my campaign. The endorsements that I'm proud of are conservative leaders like Dr. James Dobson, and over 700,000 contributions nationwide, people going to our Web site, tedcruz.org.This is a grassroots campaign and, you know, when I ran for senate in Texas, I told the people of Texas that I'm not going there to go along to get along. Washington is broken.And the people I have been accountable to every single day in the Senate are the 27 million Texans who I represent and I made a promise to them that I make to you today, which is, if I am elected, every single day I will do two things: tell the truth, and do what I said I would do.
Well, Chris, I'm glad to discuss my views on ethanol and energy. I think God has blessed this country with enormous natural resources, and we should pursue all of the above. We should be developing oil, and gas, and coal, and nuclear, and wind, and solar, and ethanol, and biofuels. But, I don't believe that Washington should be picking winners and losers. And, I think there should be no mandates, and no subsidies whatsoever.
And, indeed, my tax plan that I've introduced, it's available on our website. It's a simple flat tax for everyone. It'll produce enormous economic growth, and it eliminates every mandate, every subsidy, so there's no subsidies for oil and gas, no subsidies for anyone.Now, it is true that there are a bunch of lobbyists, and a bunch of Democrats in this state spending millions of dollars trying to convince the people of Iowa that I somehow oppose ethanol. It's not true. I have introduced legislation that would phase out the ethanol mandate over five years, but that is in the context of having no mandates whatsoever for anyone.And, I would not that there's a much more important government regulation to ethanol, and that's the EPA's blend wall that makes it illegal to sell mid-level blends of ethanol in gasoline. I will tear down the EPA's blend wall which will enable ethanol to expand its market share by up to 60%, all without mandates. All without any government mandates whatsoever through the marketplace. And, I'll note finally, Chris, there is a reason that Iowa's Congressman Steve King, perhaps the fiercest defender of farmers in this state, is sharing my campaign. Because he understands that I'm committed to a fair, and level playing field for every energy source without lobbyists, and without Washington picking winners and losers.
Ninety-three hours. The media noise will soon be over and it's now for the men and women of Iowa to decide. Our country is in crisis. We're worried the future of our children and we've have been burned over and over again.
The central question in this race is trust. Who do you know will kill the terrorists, defend the constitution and repeal Obamacare? Who do you know will stop amnesty and secure the borders? Who do you know will defend life, marriage and religious liberty? Examine our records, pray on it and I will be honored if you and your family will come caucus for us on Monday night.
Well, Maria, thank you for that question, and let me say thank you to the state of South Carolina for welcoming us.Let me start -- I want to get to the substance of the question on jobs, but I want to start with something. Today, many of us picked up our newspapers, and we were horrified to see the sight of 10 American sailors on their knees, with their hands on their heads.
In that State of the Union, President Obama didn't so much as mention the 10 sailors that had been captured by Iran. President Obama's preparing to send $100 billion or more to the Ayatollah Khamenei. And I'll tell you, it was heartbreaking.But the good news is the next commander-in-chief is standing on this stage.
And I give you my word, if I am elected president, no service man or service woman will be forced to be on their knees, and any nation that captures our fighting men will feel the full force and fury of the United States of America.Now, on to your substantive question. The president tried to paint a rosy picture of jobs. And you know, he's right. If you're a Washington lobbyist, if you make your money in and around Washington, things are doing great. The millionaires and billionaires are doing great under Obama. But we have the lowest percentage of Americans working today of any year since 1977. Median wages have stagnated. And the Obama-Clinton economy has left behind the working men and women of this country.The reason all of us are here is we believe we should be fighting for the working men and women of this country, and not Washington, D.C.Well Maria, thank you for passing on that hit piece in the front page of the New York Times. You know the nice thing about the mainstream media, they don't hide their views. The New York Times a few weeks back had a columnist who wrote a column saying, "Anybody But Cruz." Had that actually -- that same columnist wrote a column comparing me to an evil demonic spirit from the move, "It Follows" that jumps apparently from body to body possessing people.So you know the New York Times and I don't have exactly have the warmest of relationships. Now in terms of their really stunning hit piece, what they mentioned is when I was running for senate -- unlike Hillary Clinton, I don't have masses of money in the bank, hundreds of millions of dollars. When I was running for senate just about every lobbyist, just about all of the establishment opposed me in the senate race in Texas and my opponent in that race was worth over 200 million dollars. He put a 25 million dollar check up from his own pocket to fund that campaign and my wife Heidi and I, we ended up investing everything we owned.We took a loan against our assets to invest it in that campaign to defend ourselves against those attacks. And the entire New York times attack -- is that I disclosed that loan on one filing with the United States Senate, that was a public filing. But it was not on a second filing with FDIC and yes, I made a paperwork error disclosing it on one piece of paper instead of the other. But if that's the best the New York Times has got, they better go back to the well.Well, Neil, I'm glad we're focusing on the important topics of the evening.
You know, back in September, my friend Donald said that he had had his lawyers look at this from every which way, and there was no issue there. There was nothing to this birther issue.
Now, since September, the Constitution hasn't changed.
But the poll numbers have.
And I recognize -- I recognize that Donald is dismayed that his poll numbers are falling in Iowa. But the facts and the law here are really quite clear. Under longstanding U.S. law, the child of a U.S. citizen born abroad is a natural- born citizen.If a soldier has a child abroad, that child is a natural-born citizen. That's why John McCain, even though he was born in Panama, was eligible to run for president.If an American missionary has a child abroad, that child is a natural-born citizen. That's why George Romney, Mitt's dad, was eligible to run for president, even though he was born in Mexico.At the end of the day, the legal issue is quite straightforward, but I would note that the birther theories that Donald has been relying on -- some of the more extreme ones insist that you must not only be born on U.S. soil, but have two parents born on U.S. soil.Under that theory, not only would I be disqualified, Marco Rubio would be disqualified, Bobby Jindal would be disqualified and, interestingly enough, Donald J. Trump would be disqualified.
Because -- because Donald's mother was born in Scotland. She was naturalized. Now, Donald on the issue of citizenship, Donald, I'm not going to use your mother's birth against you.You're an American, as is everybody else on this stage, and I would suggest we focus on who's best prepared to be commander- in-chief, because that's the most important question facing the country.Well, listen, I've spent my entire life defending the Constitution before the U.S. Supreme Court. And I'll tell you, I'm not going to be taking legal advice from Donald Trump.
The chances of any litigation proceeding and succeeding on this are zero. And Mr. Trump is very focused on Larry Tribe. Let me tell you who Larry Tribe is. He's a left-wing judicial activist, Harvard Law professor who was Al Gore's lawyer in Bush versus Gore. He's a major Hillary Clinton supporter. And there's a reason why Hillary's supporters are echoing Donald's attacks on me, because Hillary wants to face Donald Trump in the general election.And I'll tell you what, Donald, you -- you very kindly just a moment ago offered me the V.P. slot.I'll tell you what. If this all works out, I'm happy to consider naming you as V.P. So if you happen to be right, you could get the top job at the end of the day.Actually, I'd love to get you to build a wall.The answer is simple. Your prosecute criminals. You target the bad guys. You know, a minute ago, Neil asked: What has President Obama do -- done to illustrate that he wants to go after guns?Well, he appointed Eric Holder as attorney general. Eric Holder said he viewed his mission as brainwashing the American people against guns. He appointed Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court, someone who has been a radical against the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms.He launched Fast and Furious, illegally selling guns to Mexican drug lords that were then used to shoot law enforcement officials. And I'll tell you what Hillary Clinton has said: Hillary Clinton says she agrees with the dissenters -- the Supreme Court dissenters in the Heller case.There were four dissenters, and they said that they believe the Second Amendment protects no individual right to keep and bear arms whatsoever, which means, if their view prevailed and the next president's going to get one, two, three, maybe four Supreme Court justices, the court will rule that not a single person in this room has any right under the Second Amendment and the government could confiscate your guns.And I'll note that California senator -- Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein said, if she could say to Mr. America and Mrs. America, "give me your guns, I'm rounding them up," she would.And let me make a final point on this. Listen, in any Republican primary, everyone is going to say they support the Second Amendment. Unless you are clinically insane that's what you say in a primary. But the voters are savvier than that. They recognize that people's actions don't always match their words. I've got a proven record fighting to defend the Second Amendment.There's a reason Gun Owners of America has endorsed me in this race. There's a reason the NRA gave me their Carter Knight Freedom Fund award and there's a reason, when Barack Obama and Chuck Schumer came after our right to keep and bear arms, that I led the opposition, along with millions of Americans -- we defeated that gun control legislation.And I would note the other individuals on this stage were nowhere to be found in that fight.
You know, I think most people know exactly what New York values are.
What -- what -- you're from New York? So you might not.
But I promise you, in the state of South Carolina, they do.
And listen, there are many, many wonderful, wonderful working men and women in the state of New York. But everyone understands that the values in New York City are socially liberal or pro-abortion or pro- gay-marriage, focus around money and the media.
And -- and I would note indeed, the reason I said that is I was asked -- my friend Donald has taken to it as (ph) advance playing Bruce Springsteen's "Born in the USA", and I was asked what I thought of that.And I said, "well, if he wanted to play a song, maybe he could play, 'New York, New York'?" And -- and -- you know, the concept of New York values is not that complicated to figure out.Not too many years ago, Donald did a long interview with Tim Russert. And in that interview, he explained his views on a whole host of issues that were very, very different from the views he's describing now.And his explanation -- he said, "look, I'm from New York, that's what we believe in New York. Those aren't Iowa values, but this is what we believe in New York." And so that was his explanation.And -- and I guess I can -- can frame it another way. Not a lot of conservatives come out of Manhattan. I'm just saying.You know I understand why Donald made the comments he did and I understand why Americans are feeling frustrated and scared and angry when we have a president who refuses to acknowledge the threat we face and even worse, who acts as an apologist for radical Islamic terrorism.I think what we need is a commander in chief who is focused like a laser on keeping this country safe and on defeating radical Islamic terrorism. What should we do? First, we should pass the Expatriate Terrorist Act, legislation I've introduced that says if an American goes and joins ISIS and wages jihad against America, that you forfeit your citizenship and you can not come in on a passport.
And secondly, we should pass the legislation that I've introduced that suspends all refugees from nations that ISIS or Al Qaida controls significant territory. Just last week, we see saw two Iraqi refugees vetted using the same process the president says will work, that were arrested for being alleged ISIS terrorists.If I'm elected president, we will not let in refugees from countries controlled by ISIS or Al Qaida. When it comes to ISIS, we will not weaken them, we will not degrade them, we will utterly and completely destroy ISIS.
Thanks for coming back to me, Maria. Both Donald and Jeb have good points, and there is a middle ground.Donald is right that China is running over President Obama like he is a child, President Obama is not protecting American workers and we are getting hammered.
You know, I sat down with the senior leadership of John Deere. They discussed how -- how hard it is to sell tractors in China, because all the regulatory barriers. They're protectionist.But Jeb is also right that, if we just impose a tariff, they'll put reciprocal tariffs, which will hurt Iowa farmers and South Carolina producers and 20 percent of the American jobs that depend on exports.So the way you do it is you pass a tax plan like the tax plan I've introduced: a simple flat tax, 10 percent for individuals, and a 16 percent business flat tax, you abolish the IRS and here's the critical point, Maria -- the business flat tax enables us to abolish the corporate income tax, the death tax, the Obamacare taxes, the payroll taxes, and they're border-adjustable, so every export pays no taxes whatsoever.It's tax-free -- a huge advantage for our farmers and ranchers and manufacturers -- and every import pays the 16 percent business flat tax. It's like a tariff, but here's the difference: if we impose a tariff, China responds.The business flat tax, they already impose their taxes on us, so there's no reciprocal tariffs that come against us. It puts us on a level, even playing field, which brings jobs here at home and as president, I'm going to fight for the working men and women.Well, Marco has been floating this attack for a few weeks now, but the problem is, the business flat tax in my proposal is not a vat. A vat is imposed as a sales tax when you buy a good.This is a business flat tax. It is imposed on business and a critical piece that Marco seems to be missing is that this 16 percent business flat tax enables us to eliminate the corporate income tax. It goes away. It enables us to eliminate the death tax.If you're a farmer, if you're a rancher, if you are small business owner, the death tax is gone. We eliminate the payroll tax, we eliminate the Obamacare taxes. And listen, there is a real difference between Marco's tax plan and mine.Mine gives every American a simple, flat tax of 10 percent. Marco's top tax rate is 35 percent. My tax plan enables you to fill out your taxes on a postcard so we can abolish the IRS. Marco leaves the IRS code in with all of the complexity. We need to break the Washington cartel, and the only way to do it is to end all the subsidies and all the mandates and have a simple flat tax. The final observation, invoked Ronald Reagan. I would note that Art Laffer, Ronald Reagan's chief economic adviser, has written publicly, that my simple flat tax is the best tax plan of any of the individuals on this stage cause it produces economic growth, it raises wages and it helps everyone from the very poorest to the very richest.
But Maria, radical Islamic terrorism was not invented 24 months ago; 24 months ago, we had Al Qaida. We had Boko Haram. We had Hamas. We had Hezbollah. We had Iran putting operatives in South America and Central America. It's the reason why I stood with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and led the fight to stop the Gang of Eight amnesty bill, because it was clear then, like it's clear now, that border security is national security.
It is also the case that that Rubio-Schumer amnesty bill, one of the things it did is it expanded Barack Obama's power to let in Syrian refugees. It enabled him -- the president to certify them en masse without mandating meaningful background checks.I think that's a mistake. That's why I've been leading the fight to stop it. And I would note the Senate just a few weeks ago voted to suspend refugees from Middle Eastern countries. I voted yes to suspend that. Marco voted on the other side. So you don't get to say we need to secure the borders, and at the same time try to give Barack Obama more authority to allow Middle Eastern refugees coming in, when the head of the FBI tells us they cannot vet them to determine if they are ISIS terrorists.I'm going to -- he had no fewer than 11 attacks there. I appreciate your dumping your research folder on the debate stage.
But I will say at least half of the things Marco said are flat-out false. They're absolutely false.
So let's start -- let's start with immigration. Let's start with immigration and have a little bit of clarity. Marco stood with Chuck Schumer and Barack Obama on amnesty. I stood with Jeff Sessions and Steve King. Marco stood today, standing on this stage Marco supports legalization and citizenship for 12 million illegals. I opposed and oppose legalization and citizenship.And by the way, the attack he keeps throwing out on the military budget, Marco knows full well I voted for his amendment to increase military spending to $697 billion. What he said, and he said it in the last debate, it's simply not true. And as president, I will rebuild the military and keep this country safe."13 Hours" -- tomorrow morning, a new movie will debut about the incredible bravery of the men fighting for their lives in Benghazi and the politicians that abandoned them. I want to speak to all our fighting men and women.I want to speak to all the moms and dads whose sons and daughters are fighting for this country, and the incredible sense of betrayal when you have a commander-in-chief who will not even speak the name of our enemy, radical Islamic terrorism, when you have a commander-in- chief who sends $150 billion to the Ayatollah Khamenei, who's responsible for murdering hundreds of our servicemen and women.I want to speak to all of those maddened by political correctness, where Hillary Clinton apologizes for saying all lives matter. This will end. It will end on January 2017.
And if I am elected president, to every soldier and sailor and airman and marine, and to every police officer and firefighter and first responder who risk their lives to keep us safe, I will have your back.Thank you, Wolf.America is at war. Our enemy is not violent extremism. It is not some unnamed malevolent force. It is radical Islamic terrorist. We have a president who is unwilling to utter its name. The men and women on this stage, every one of us, is better prepared to keep this nation safe than is Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton.We need a president who understands the first obligation of the commander-in-chief is to keep America safe. If I am elected president, we will hunt down and kill the terrorists. We will utterly destroy ISIS.We will stop the terrorist attacks before they occur because we will not be prisoners to political correctness. Rather, we will speak the truth. Border security is national security and we will not be admitting jihadists as refugees.We will keep America safe.
Well, listen, Hugh, everyone understands why Donald has suggested what he has. We're looking at a president who's engaged in this double-speak where he doesn't call radical Islamic terrorism by its name. Indeed, he gives a speech after the San Bernardino attack where his approach is to try to go after the constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens rather than to keep us safe.And even worse, President Obama and Hillary Clinton are proposing bringing tens of thousands of Syrian refugees to this country when the head of the FBI has told Congress they cannot vet those refugees.I understand why Donald made that proposal. I introduced legislation in the Senate that I believe is more narrowly focused at the actual threat, which is radical Islamic terrorism, and what my legislation would do is suspend all refugees for three years from countries where ISIS or Al Qaida control substantial territory.Well, you know, I'm reminded of what FDR's grandfather said. He said, "All horse-thieves are Democrats, but not all Democrats are horse-thieves."
In this instance, there are millions of peaceful Muslims across the world, in countries like India, where there is not the problems we are seeing in nations that are controlled -- have territory controlled by Al Qaida or ISIS, and we should direct at the problem, focus on the problem, and defeat radical Islamic terrorism. It's not a war on a faith; it's a war on a political and theocratic ideology that seeks to murder us.Well, Dana, the premise of your question is not accurate. I'm very proud to have joined with conservatives in both the Senate and the House to reform how we target bad guys.And what the USA Freedom Act did is it did two things. Number one, it ended the federal government's bulk collection of phone metadata of millions of law-abiding citizens.But number two in the second half of it that is critical. It strengthened the tools of national security and law enforcement to go after terrorists. It gave us greater tools and we are seeing those tools work right now in San Bernardino.And in particular, what it did is the prior program only covered a relatively narrow slice of phone calls. When you had a terrorist, you could only search a relatively narrow slice of numbers, primarily land lines.
The USA Freedom Act expands that so now we have cell phones, now we have Internet phones, now we have the phones that terrorists are likely to use and the focus of law enforcement is on targeting the bad guys.You know what the Obama administration keeps getting wrong is whenever anything bad happens they focus on law-abiding citizens instead of focusing on the bad guys.We need to focus on radical Islamic terrorists and we need to stop them before they carry out acts of terror.Well, you know, I would note that Marco knows what he's saying isn't true. You know, Mark Levin wrote a column last week that says that the attack ads his Super PAC is running that are saying the same thing, that they are knowingly false and they are, in fact, Alinsky-like attacks like Barack Obama.And the reason is simple. What he knows is that the old program covered 20 percent to 30 percent of phone numbers to search for terrorists. The new program covers nearly 100 percent. That gives us greater ability to stop acts of terrorism, and he knows that that's the case.
What it means is using overwhelming air power to utterly and completely destroy ISIS. To put things in perspective, in the first Persian Gulf War, we launched roughly 1,100 air attacks a day. We carpet bombed them for 36 days, saturation bombing, after which our troops went in and in a day and a half mopped up what was left of the Iraqi army.Right now, Obama is launching between 15 and 30 air attacks a day. It is photo op foreign policy. We need to use overwhelming air power. We need to be arming the Kurds. We need to be fighting and killing ISIS where they are.And let me go back to the earlier discussion a minute ago. It's not a lack of competence that is preventing the Obama administration from stopping these attacks. It is political correctness. We didn't monitor the Facebook posting of the female San Bernardino terrorist because the Obama DHS thought it would be inappropriate. She made a public call to jihad, and they didn't target it.The Tsarnaev brothers, the elder brother made a public call to jihad and the Obama administration didn't target it. Nidal Hasan communicated with Anwar al-Awlaki, a known radical cleric, asked about waging jihad against his fellow soldiers. The problem is because of political correctness, the Obama administration, like a lot of folks here, want to search everyone's cell phones and e-mails and not focus on the bad guys. And political correctness is killing people.
You would carpet bomb where ISIS is, not a city, but the location of the troops. You use air power directed -- and you have embedded special forces to direction the air power. But the object isn't to level a city. The object is to kill the ISIS terrorists.To make it -- listen, ISIS is gaining strength because the perception is that they're winning. And President Obama fuels that perception. That will change when militants across the globe see that when you join ISIS that you are giving up your life, you are signing your death warrant, and we need a president who is focused on defeating every single ISIS terrorist and protecting the homeland, which should be the first priority.
Well, you know, Marco has continued these attacks, and he knows they're not true. Yes, it is true that I voted against the National Defense Authorization Act, because when I campaigned in Texas I told voters in Texas that I would oppose the federal government having the authority to detain U.S. citizens permanently with no due process. I have repeatedly supported an effort to take that out of that bill, and I honored that campaign commitment.But more broadly, you know, the notion Marco is suggesting, that somehow -- he also has tossed more than a few insults this direction -- let's be absolutely clear. ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism will face no more determined foe than I will be.We will utterly destroy them by targeting the bad guys. And one of the problems with Marco's foreign policy is he has far too often supported Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama undermining governments in the Middle East that have helped radical Islamic terrorists.We need to focus on killing the bad guys, not getting stuck in Middle Eastern civil wars that don't keep America safe.
Wolf, I believe in a America first foreign policy, that far too often President Obama and Hillary Clinton -- and, unfortunately, more than a few Republicans -- have gotten distracted from the central focus of keeping this
country safe.So let's go back to the beginning of the Obama administration, when Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama led NATO in toppling the government in Libya. They did it because they wanted to promote democracy. A number of Republicans supported them. The result of that -- and we were told then that there were these moderate rebels that would take over. Well, the result is, Libya is now a terrorist war zone run by jihadists.Move over to Egypt. Once again, the Obama administration, encouraged by Republicans, toppled Mubarak who had been a reliable ally of the United States, of Israel, and in its place, Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood came in, a terrorist organization.And we need to learn from history. These same leaders -- Obama, Clinton, and far too many Republicans -- want to topple Assad. Assad is a bad man. Gadhafi was a bad man. Mubarak had a terrible human rights record. But they were assisting us -- at least Gadhafi and Mubarak -- in fighting radical Islamic terrorists.And if we topple Assad, the result will be ISIS will take over Syria, and it will worsen U.S. national security interests. And the approach, instead of being a Woodrow Wilson democracy promoter, we ought to hunt down our enemies and kill ISIS rather than creating opportunities for ISIS to take control of new countries.Well, it's more than not shedding a tear. It's actively getting involved to topple a government. And we keep hearing from President Obama and Hillary Clinton and Washington Republicans that they're searching for these mythical moderate rebels. It's like a purple unicorn. They never exist. These moderate rebels end up being jihadists.And I'll tell you whose view on Assad is the same as mine. It's Prime Minister Netanyahu. Prime Minister Netanyahu has said Israel doesn't have a dog in that fight because Assad is a puppet of Iran, a Shia radical Islamic terrorist, but at the same time, Prime Minister Netanyahu doesn't want to see Syria governed by ISIS. And we need to focus on American interests, not on global aspirations...The question of whether we should toppling dictatorships is asking the wrong question. We should be defeating our enemies. So the problem with defeating...
Well, but let me explain, the focus should be on defeating our enemies. So, for example a regime we should change is Iran because Iran has declared war on us. But we shouldn't be toppling regimes that are fighting radical Islamic terrorists that are helping...Well, he -- he has attempted to muddy the waters, but I think that anyone who watched the battle that we had. You know, there was a time for choosing as Reagan put it. Where there was a battle over amnesty and some chose, like Senator Rubio to stand with Barack Obama and Chuck Schumer and support a massive amnesty plan. Others chose to stand with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and the American people and secure the border.And let me mention, this issue is actually directly connected to what we've been talking about. Because the front line with ISIS isn't just in Iraq and Syria, it's in Kennedy Airport and the Rio Grande. Border security is national security. And, you know, one of the most troubling aspects of the Rubio-Schumer Gang of Eight Bill was that it gave President Obama blanket authority to admit refugees, including Syrian refugees without mandating any background checks whatsoever. Now we've seen what happened in San Bernardino. When you are letting people in, when the FBI can't vet them, it puts American citizens at risk. And I tell you, if I'm elected president, we will secure the border. We will triple the border patrol. We will build a wall that works and I'll get Donald Trump to pay for it.Look, I understand Marco wants to raise confusion, it is not accurate what he just said that I supported legalization. Indeed, I led the fight against his legalization and amnesty. And you know, there was one commentator that put it this way that, for Marco to suggest our record's the same is like suggesting "the fireman and the arsonist because they are both at the scene of the fire."He was fighting to grant amnesty and not to secure the border, I was fighting to secure the border. And this also goes to trust, listening on to campaign trails. Candidates all the time make promises. You know, Marco said," he learned that the American people didn't trust the federal government."
He campaigned promising to lead the fight against amnesty.I have never supported legalization, and I do not intend to support legalization. Let me tell you how you do this, what you do is you enforce the law...What you do is you enforce the law. I've laid out a very, very detailed immigration plan on my website, tedcruz.org. It's 11 pages of existing federal law and in particular the question of what to do with people who are here now? You enforce the law.That means you stop the Obama administration's policy of releasing criminal illegal aliens. Do you know how many aliens Bill Clinton deported? 12 million. Do you know how many illegal aliens, George W. Bush deported? 10 million.We can enforce the laws and if we secure the border, that solves the problem. And as president I will solve this problem and secure the border.Dana, what I said in private is exactly what I'll say here, which is that the judgment that every voter is making of every one of us up here is who has the experience, who has the vision, who has the judgment to be commander in chief. That is the most important decision for the voters to make. That's a standard I'm held to. And
it's a standard everyone else is held to.And I will note, you know, in the whole course of this discussion about our foreign policy threats, it actually illustrates the need for clarity of focus.You know, my daughters, Caroline and Catherine, came tonight. They're 7 and 5. And you think about the Los Angeles schools canceling their schools today.And every parent is wondering, how do we keep our kids safe? We need a commander in chief who does what Ronald Reagan did with communism, which is he set out a global strategy to defeat Soviet communism. He directed all of his forces to defeating communism.One of the things we've seen here is how easy it is for Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton to get distracted from dealing with radical Islamic terrorism. They won't even call it by its name.We need a president who stands up, number one, and says, we will defeat ISIS. And number two, says the greatest national security threat facing America is a nuclear Iran.What I'm saying, Dana, is that is a judgment for every voter to make. What I can tell you is all nine of the people here would make an infinitely better commander in chief than Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton.
And there is a real danger, Dana, when people get distracted. I'm answering the question, Wolf.here's a real danger when people get distracted by peripheral issues. They get distracted by democracy building. They get distracted about military conflicts. We need to focus on defeating jihadism. ISIS and Iran have declared war on America, and we need a commander in chief who will do everything necessary to keep our children safe.
And I will do everything necessary to keep our children safe.
Judgment, strength, clarity and trust. Barack Obama has said he doesn't believe in American leadership or America winning -- he is wrong. America can win again and we will win again. Ronald Reagan reignited the American economy, rebuilt the Military, bankrupted the Soviet Union and defeated Soviet Communism. I will do the same thing.Cutting taxes, cutting regulation, unleashing small businesses and rebuilding the Military to defeat radical Islamic terrorism -- our strategy is simple. We win, they lose. We've done it before and we can do it again.Well, Maria, it's great to be with you. It's great to be here in Milwaukee. You know, the question you asked really I think is the most important question any of us can have -- face, which is, how do we get the economy growing? How do we bring back economic growth?Because economic growth, it's foundational to every other challenge we have. As you rightly noted, from 2008 to today, our economy has grown 1.2 percent a year on average. The Obama economy is a disaster, and the IMF is telling us this is a new normal. It doesn't have to be.If you look at the history of America, there are three levers that government has had to facilitate economic growth. The first is tax reform. And as you noted, I have rolled out a bold and simple flat tax: 10 percent for every American that would produce booming growth and 4.9 million new jobs within a decade.The second element is regulatory reform, pulling back the armies of regulators that have descended like locusts on small businesses.And the third element is sound money. Every time we've pursued all three of those -- whether in the 1920s with Calvin Coolidge or the 1960s with JFK or the 1980s with Ronald Reagan -- the result has been incredible economic growth. We have done it before, and with leadership, we can do it again.
Well, my Mom is here, so I don't think we should be pushing any grannies off cliffs. And, you miss-stated what I've said on entitlement reform. What I've said is for seniors we should make no changes whatsoever, for younger workers we should gradually raise the retirement age, we should have benefits grow more slowly, and we should allow them to keep a portion of their taxes in a personal account that they control, and can pass on to their kids...I want to go back to the discussion we had a minute ago because, you know, what was said was right. The democrats are laughing -- because if republicans join democrats as the party of amnesty, we will lose.And, you know, I understand that when the mainstream media covers immigration, it doesn't often see it as an economic issue. But, I can tell you for millions -- of Americans at home watching this, it is a very personal economic issue. And, I will say the politics of it will be very, very different if a bunch of lawyers or bankers were crossing the Rio Grande.
Or if a bunch of people with journalism degrees were coming over and driving down the wages in the press.
Then, we would see stories about the economic calamity that is befalling our nation. And, I will say for those of us who believe people 'ought to come to this country legally, and we should enforce the law, we're tired of being told it's anti- immigrant. It's offensive.
I am the son of an immigrant who came legally from Cuba to seek the American dream. And, we can embrace legal immigration while believing in the rule of law -- and I would note, try going illegally to another country. Try going to China, or Japan. Try going to Mexico. See what they do. Every sovereign nation secures its borders, and it is not compassionate to say we're not going to enforce the laws and we're going to drive down the wages for millions of hardworking men and women. That is abandoning the working...
Well, sure, you put your finger on what the problem is. The current system isn't fair. Washington is fundamentally corrupt. There are more words in the IRS code than there are in the Bible -- and -- and not a one of them is as good.Every one of them reflects a carve-out or a subsidy, and it's all about empowering the Washington cartel. My simple Flat Tax says that, for a family of four, for the first $36,000 you earn, you pay no taxes whatsoever. No income taxes, no payroll taxes, no nothing.Above that, every American pays 10 percent across the board -- a flat, fair tax. Which means that no longer do you have hedge-fund billionaires paying a lower tax rate than their secretaries.On the business side, I've got a business flat tax of 16 percent -- again, that applies across the board. Right now, with our corporate income tax, giant corporations with armies of accountants regularly are paying little to no taxes while small businesses are getting hammered.This is fair and across-the-board. Now, you ask, how do the numbers add up? I would encourage folks, if you go to our website, tedcruz.org, we have the specific numbers on the website.This plan eliminates the payroll tax, eliminates the death tax, eliminates the corporate income tax, and it abolishes the IRS.And the effect of that is incredible economic growth. It means every income group will see double-digit increases, from the very poorest to the very weakest, of at least 14 percent.So if you're a single mom, if you're making $40,000 a year, what that means is an extra about $5,000 in your pocket to provide for your kids, to make ends meet. It has a powerful, powerful effect.And there's one other really powerful feature of my plan, which is that it's border- adjustable. Which means, if you're an exporter -- if you're a farmer, if you're a rancher, if you're a manufacturer, you don't pay the businesses flat tax.Exports are free of that tax, but all imports pay that 16 percent business flat tax, which means this tax plan would cause jobs to boom, and it would let America compete with China and the world on a level playing field.
Well, the numbers the Tax Foundation had put out is that the static cost of the plan is $3.6 trillion over 10 years, but the dynamic cost of the plan, which -- which is the cost that factors in growth, is about $768 billion.It is less than a trillion. It costs less than virtually every other plan people have put up here, and yet it produces more growth and it's one of the very few plans that abolishes the IRS.But on top of that, today, we rolled out a spending plan. $500 billion in specific cuts -- five major agencies that I would eliminate. The IRS, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Energy, the Department of Commerce, and HUD -- and then 25 specific programs.Again, that's on our website at tedcruz.org. You want to look at specificity? It's easy for everyone to say, "cut spending". It's much harder and riskier to put out, chapter and verse, specifically the programs you would cut to stop bankrupting our kids and grandkids.
Absolutely yes. You know, I have spent much of my adult life enforcing the law and defending the Constitution. And the problem that underlies all of this is the cronyism and corruption of Washington.You know, the opening question Jerry asked, would you bail out the big banks again? Nobody gave you an answer to that. I'll give you an answer. Absolutely not.
And what we have right now is we have Washington -- as government gets bigger and bigger, you know, the biggest lie in all of Washington and in all of politics is that Republicans are the party of the rich. The truth is, the rich do great with big government. They get in bed with big government. The big banks get bigger and bigger and bigger under Dodd-Frank and community banks are going out of business. And, by the way, the consequence of that is small businesses can't get business loans, and it is that fundamental corruption that is why six of the 10 wealthiest counties in America are in and around Washington, D.C.And let me give you a contrast to Washington cronyism. Some weeks ago, a woman named Sabina Loving testified at a hearing that I chaired in the Senate. Sabina Loving is an African-American single mom who started a tax preparation business in the south side of Chicago. She found a store front, she wanted to have her own business. She started a business.But then the IRS promulgated new regulations targeting tax preparers. They did it under a more than 100-year-old statute called the Dead Horse Act. Now, this statute and the IRS in classic Washington crony fashion had exemptions for lawyers and big fancy accountants, but Sabina had to pay $1,000 an employee. It would have driven her out of business, and Ms. Loving sued the IRS. She took the Obama IRS to court, and she won, and they struck down the rule for picking the big guys over the little guys.Yes. Now, let's be clear, there is a role for the Federal Reserve -- what the Fed is doing now is it is a series of philosopher- kings trying to guess what's happening with the economy. You look at the Fed, one of the reasons we had the financial crash is throughout the 2000s, we had loose money, we had an asset bubble, it drove up the price of real estate, drove up the price of commodities, and then in the third quarter of 2008, the Fed tightened the money and crashed those asset prices, which caused a cascading collapse. That's why I am supporting getting back to rules-based monetary system not with a bunch of philosopher- kings deciding, but tied...So let me be clear. I would not bail them out, but instead of adjusting monetary policy according to whims and getting it wrong over and over again and causing booms and busts, what the Fed should be doing is, number one, keeping our money tied to a stable level of gold, and, number two, serving as a lender of last resort.That's what central banks do. So if you have a run on the bank, the Fed can serve as a lender of last resort, but it's not a bailout. It is a loan at higher interest rates. That's how central banks have worked.And I'll point out -- look, we had a gold standard under Bretton Woods, we had it for about 170 years of our nation's history, and enjoyed booming economic growth and lower inflation than we have had with the Fed now.We need to get back to sound money, which helps, in particular, working men and women. What Washington does -- the people who are doing well in the Obama economy are those with power and influence in the Obama government. The people who working men and women...But you just said an executive knows to step in and bail out a bank.
So you said you'd abandon philosophy and abandon principle but what would you do if the bank was failing?What would you do if the bank was failing?
So you -- you would bail them out.
And, Maria, I will note, she's got a lot of experience, but her policies have proven disastrous. If you look at foreign policy, every region in the world has gotten worse. Under her leadership, we abandon the nation of Israel. Under her leadership, radical Islamic terrorism has been on to the rise. Under her leadership, and Obama's leadership, Iran is getting $100 billion dollars, and on the verge of getting a nuclear weapon.Everything she's put her hand to, or has touched -- and when we talk about the cronyism of Washington, Hillary Clinton embodies the cronyism of Washington. And, I'll give you an example of that, which is the Congressional exemption from Obamacare, which is fundamentally wrong, and I'll tell you this, if I'm elected president, I will veto any statute that exempts members of congress. The law should apply evenly to every American.
Fifty-eight years ago, my father fled Cuba. As he stood on the deck of that ferryboat with the wind and salt air blowing, he looked back at the oppression and torture he was escaping. And yet he looked forward to the promise of America. His story is our story. What ties Americans together is we are all the children of those who risked everything for freedom.America is in crisis now. I believe in America. And if we get back to the free market principles and constitutional liberties that built this country, we can turn this country around. I believe that 2016 will be an election like 1980, that we will win by following Reagan's admonition to paint in bold colors, not pale pastels. We're building a grassroots army. I ask you to join us at tedcruz.org. And we, the people, can turn this nation around.
I'm too agreeable, easy going.
You know, I think my biggest weakness is exactly the opposite. I'm a fighter. I am passionate about what I believe. I've been passionate my whole life about the Constitution. And, you know, for six-and-a-half years, we've had a gigantic party. If you want someone to grab a beer with, I may not be that guy. But if you want someone to drive you home, I will get the job done and I will get you home.
Becky, if you want a 10 percent flat tax where the numbers add up, I rolled out my tax plan today, you can find it on line at tedcruz.org. It is a simple flat tax where for individuals, a family of four pays nothing on the first $36,000.After that you pay 10 percent as a flat tax going up. The billionaire and the working man, no hedge fund manager pays less than his secretary.On top of that, there is a business flat tax of 16 percent. Now that applies universally to giant corporations that with lobbyists right now are not paying taxes, and as small business.And you wanted to know the numbers, the Tax Foundation, which has scored every one of our plans, shows that this plan will allow the economy to generate 4.9 million jobs, to raise wages over 12 percent, and to generate 14 percent growth.
And it costs, with dynamic scoring, less than a trillion dollars. Those are the hard numbers. And every single income decile sees a double-digit increase in after-tax income.Growth is the answer. And as Reagan demonstrated, if we cut taxes, we can bring back growth.
You know, let me say something at the outset. The questions that have been asked so far in this debateillustrate why the American people don't trust the media.
This is not a cage match. And, you look at the questions -- "Donald Trump, are you a comic-book villain?" "Ben Carson, can you do math?" "John Kasich, will you insult two people over here?" "Marco Rubio, why don't you resign?" "Jeb Bush, why have your numbers fallen?"How about talking about the substantive issues the people care about? And Carl -- Carl, I'm not finished yet.The contrast with the Democratic debate, where every fawning question from the media was, "Which of you is more handsome and why?"And let me be clear.
Let me be clear. The men and women on this stage have more ideas, more experience, more common sense than every participant in the Democratic debate. That debate reflected a debate between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks.
And nobody watching at home believed that any of the moderators had any intention of voting in a Republican primary. The questions that are being asked shouldn't be trying to get people to tear into each other. It should be what are your substantive positions...You want me to answer that question? I'm happy to answer the question...
You don't want to hear the answer. 
You're not interested in an answer.
Then I'll buy you a tequila...
Or, even some famous Colorado brownies.
Well, sure. This deal in Washington is an example of why Washington's broken. Republican leadership joined with every single Democrat, add $80 trillion to our debt to do nothing to fix the problems.And, let me now on Social Security because we were getting into a good substantive exchange, and I want to say I think both Chris, and Mike are right. Governor Huckabee's exactly right, we need to honor the promises made to our seniors, but for younger workers -- look. I'm 44 years old.It is hard to find someone in my generation that thinks Social Security will be there for us. We can save and preserve and strengthen Social Security by making no changes for seniors, but for younger workers gradually increasing the retirement age, changing the rate of growth so that it matches inflation, and critically allowing younger workers to keep a portion of our tax payments in a personal account that we own, we control them, we can pass on to our kids.
Well, we've gotta turn the economy around for people who are struggling.The Democrats' answer to everything is more government control over wages, and more empowering trial lawyers to file lawsuits.You know, you look at women working. I'll tell you, in my family there are a lot of single moms in my family. My sister was a single mom, both of my aunts who were a single moms. My mom who's here today, was a single mom when my father left us when I was 3 years old.Now, thank God, my father was invited to a Bible study and became born again and he came back to my mom and me and we were raised together. But I -- the struggle of single moms is extraordinary. And you know, when you see Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and all the Democrats talking about wanting to address the plight of working women, not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama, 3.7 million women have entered poverty.Not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama and the big government economy, the median wage for women has dropped $733. The the truth of the matter is, big government benefits the wealthy, it benefits the lobbyists, it benefits the giant corporations. And the people who are getting hammered are small businesses, it's single moms, it's Hispanics. That is who I'm fighting for. The people that Washington leaves behind.Well, Rick, it's a very important question. I have got deep concerns about the Fed. The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed. And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul's audit the Fed legislation.The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity.
And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women. You know, it's interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great. It's driving up stock prices. Wall Street is doing great.You know, today, the top 1 percent earn a higher share of our income than any year since 1928. But if you look at working men and women. If you look at a single mom buying groceries, she sees hamburger prices have gone up nearly 40 percent.She sees her cost of electricity going up. She sees her health insurance going up. And loose money is one of the major problems. We need sound money. And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold.
Let me say on that Rand is exactly right. His plan is a good plan, and I will note that my 10% plan also eliminates the payroll tax, eliminates the death tax, eliminates the business income tax, 10% flat rate is the lowest personal rate any candidate up here has, and what it would also enable us to do is for every citizen to fill out their taxes on a postcard so we can eliminate the IRS.You know, everyone here talks about the need to take on Washington. The natural next question is who actually has done so. Who actually has stood up not just to Democrats, but to leaders in our own party? When millions of Americans rose up against Obamacare, I was proud to lead that fight. When millions of Americans rose up against amnesty, I was proud to lead that fight. When millions of Americans rose up against Planned Parenthood, I was proud to lead that fight.If people are promising they're going to take on Washington and cronyism, you need to look to who has been doing it. In my family, my dad fled oppression in Cuba to come to America. Freedom is personal for me, and I will always keep my word and fight for freedom.Im Ted Cruz. I am the son of an Irish-Italian mom and a Cuban immigrant dad who fled oppression and came to America seeking freedom. Im a husband to my best friend, Heidi, whos here tonight. Im a dad to two little girls who are the loves of my life, Caroline and Catherine.If youre fed up with Washington, if youre looking for someone to stand up to career politicians in both parties, Im the only one on this stage who has done that over and over again, and if we stand together, we can bring America back.
Well, let me tell you, Jake, the single biggest national security threat facing America right now is the threat of a nuclear Iran. Weve seen six and a half years of President Obama leading from behind. Weakness is provocative, and this Iranian nuclear deal is nothing short of catastrophic.This deal, on its face, will send over $100 billion to the Ayatollah Khamenei, making the Obama administration the worlds leading financier of radical Islamic terrorism.
This deal abandons four American hostages in Iran, and this deal will only accelerate Irans acquiring nuclear weapons. Youd better believe it. If I am elected president, on the very first day in office, I will rip to shreds this catastrophic Iranian nuclear deal.
Well, lets be clear when it comes to experience. What President Obama wants to do is hes run to the United Nations, and he wants to use the United Nations to bind the United States, and take away our sovereignty. Well, I spent five and a half years as a Solicitor General of Texas, the lead lawyer for the state, in front of the U.S. Supreme Court, and I went in front of the Supreme Court, and took on the world court of the United Nations in a case called Medellin v. Texas, and we won a historic victory saying the World Court, and the U.N., has no power to bind the United States, and no President of the United States, Republican or Democrat, has the authority to give away our sovereignty.And, so, if theres anyone up here who would be bound by this catastrophic deal with Iran, theyre giving up the core responsibility of commander in chief, and as president, I would never do that.
Jake, there is no more important topic in 2016 than this topic right here, and Ive listened to several folks saying, Well, gosh, if they cheat, well act.We wont know under this agreement  there are several facilities in Iran they designate as military facilities that are off limit all together. Beyond that, the other facilities, we give them 24 days notice before inspecting them. That is designed to allow them to hide the evidence.And most astonishingly, this agreement trusts the Iranians to inspect themselves. That makes no sense whatsoever.And let me know  President Obama is violating federal law by not handing over the side deals, and we ought to see the United States Congress stand up together and say, Hand over this treaty, and protect this country.
Well, let me tell you, Dana, number one, Im proud to stand for life. These Planned Parenthood videos are horrifying. I would encourage every American to watch the videos. See  seeing your Planned Parenthood officials callously, heartlessly bartering and selling the body parts of human beings, and then ask yourself, are these my values?These are horrifying. On these videos, Planned Parenthood also essentially confesses to multiple felonies. It is a felony with ten years jail term to sell the body parts of unborn children for profit. Thats what these videos show Planned Parenthood doing.Absolutely we shouldnt be sending $500 million of taxpayer money to funding an ongoing criminal enterprise, and Ill tell you, the fact that Republican leadership in both houses has begun this discussion by preemptively surrendering to Barack Obama and saying, well give in because Obama threatens a veto.You know, Obamas committed to his principles. His liberal principles, he will fight for them. He says...
I will veto any budget that doesnt fund Planned Parenthood, and Republicans surrender. We need to stop surrendering and start standing for our principles.
Well, Jake, you know, Im  Im very glad that Donald Trumps being in this race has forced the mainstream media finally to talk about illegal immigration. I think thats very important.I like and respect Ben Carson. Ill let him talk about his own plans.But I will say this: The natural next question that primary voters are asking, after we focus on illegal immigration is, okay, what are the records of the various candidates? And this is an issue on which there are stark differences.A majority of the men and women on this stage have previously and publicly embraced amnesty. I am the only candidate on this stage who has never supported amnesty and, in fact, who helped lead the fight to stop a massive amnesty plan.In 2013, when Barack Obama and Harry Reid joined the Washington Republicans in a massive, I stood shoulder to shoulder with Jeff Sessions helping lead the fight.You know, folks here have talked about, how do you secure the borders? Well, Ive been leading the fight in the Senate to triple the Border Patrol, to put in place fencings and walls, to put in place a strong biometric exit/entry system...
Well, Dana, Ive known John Roberts for 20 years, hes amazingly talented lawyer, but, yes, it was a mistake when he was appointed to the Supreme Court. Hes a good enough lawyer that he knows in these Obamacare cases he changed the statute, he changed the law in order to force that failed law on millions of Americans for a political outcome.And, you know, were frustrated as conservatives. We keep winning elections, and then we dont get the outcome we want. And, let me focus on two moments in time.Number one, in 1990, in one room was David Souter, and in another room was Edith Jones, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the fifth circuit court of appeals. George Herbert Walker Bush appointed David Souter.And then in 2005, in one room was John Roberts, in another room was my former boss, Mike Luttig, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals George W. Bush appointed John Roberts, and let me give you the consequences of that.If, instead, the President Bush had appointed Edith Jones, and Mike Luttig, which is who I would have appointed, Obamacare would have been struck down three years ago, and the marriage laws of all 50 states would be on the books. These matter, and I fought to defend the constitution my whole life and I will as president as well.
It is true that after George W. Bush nominated John Roberts, I supported his confirmation. That was a mistake and I regret that. I wouldnt have nominated John Roberts, and indeed, Governor Bush pointed out why.It wasnt that the President Bushes wanted to appoint a liberal to the court, its that it was the easier choice. Both David Souter and John Roberts, they didnt have a long paper trail. If you had nominated Edith Jones or Mike Ludig (ph) you would have had a bloody fight and they werent willing to spend political capital to put a strong judicial conservative on the court.I have spent my entire life, starting from clerking for Chief Justice William Rehnquist on the United States Supreme Court, one of the most principled jurists. We have an out-of- control Court, and I give you my word, if Im elected president, every single Supreme Court justice will faithfully follow the law and will not act like philosopher kings imposing their liberal policies on millions of Americans who need to be trusted to govern ourselves.
I  I am not, and  and you mentioned that the U.S. Supreme Court had rightly upheld the individual right to keep and bear arms.I was proud to lead 31 states before the U.S. Supreme Court defending the Second Amendment, and we won that landmark victory. And indeed, just a couple of years ago, when Harry Reid and Barack Obama came after the right to keep and bear arms of millions of Americans, I was proud to lead the fight in the United States Senate to protect our right to keep and bear arms, and for that reason I was honored to be endorsed by Gun Owners of America as the strongest supporter of the Second Amendment on this stage today, and I will fight every day to defend the Bill of Rights.
Well, I wouldnt change the $10 bill, Id change the $20. Id take Jackson off and Id leave Alexander Hamilton right where he is as one of our Founding Fathers.
And I very much agree with Marco that it should be Rosa Parks. She was a principled pioneer that helped change this country, helped remedy racial injustice, and that would be an honor that would be entirely appropriate.You know, as a Cuban, I might go with Cohiba, and Ill tell you, Id go with, for Heidi, Angel, because she is my angel.
Ronald Reagan believed in America.If Im elected president our friends and allies across the globe will know that we stand with them. the bust of Winston Churchill will be back in the Oval Office, and the American embassy in Israel will be in Jerusalem.Enemies across this world will know the United States is not to be trifled with. ISIS will be defeated. We will have a president willing to utter the words, radical Islamic terrorism, and the Ayatollah Khamenei will understand that he will never, ever, ever acquire nuclear weapons.Here at home, well reignite the promise of America. Young people coming out of school, with student loans up to their eyeballs, will find instead of no jobs, two, three, four, five job opportunities.How will that happen? Through tax reform. Well pass a simple flat tax and abolish the IRS. And through regulatory reform, we will repeal every word of Obamacare.You want to know what Ill do as president? It is real simple. Well kill the terrorists, well repeal Obamacare, and we will defend the Constitution, every single word of it.
Chris, I believe the American people are looking for someone to speak the truth. If youre looking for someone to go to Washington, to go along to get along, to get  to agree with the career politicians in both parties who get in bed with the lobbyists and special interests, then I aint your guy.There is a reason that we have $18 trillion in debt. Because as conservatives, as Republicans, we keep winning elections. We got a Republican House, weve got a Republican Senate, and we dont have leaders who honor their commitments. I will always tell the truth and do what I said I would do.
Chris, absolutely yes. 
I have authored Kates law in the United States Senate and filed that legislation. I tried to get the Senate to vote to pass Kates law on the floor of the Senate just one week ago, and the leader of our own party blocked a vote on Kates law.You know, there was reference made to our leaders being stupid. Its not a question of stupidity. Its that they dont want to enforce the immigration laws. That there are far too many in the Washington cartel that support amnesty.
President Obama has talked about fundamentally transforming this country. Theres 7 billion people across the face of the globe, many of whom want to come to this country. If they come legally, great. But if they come illegally and they get amnesty, that is how we fundamentally change this country, and it really is striking.A majority of the candidates on this stage have supported amnesty. I have never supported amnesty, and I led the fight against Chuck Schumers gang of eight amnesty legislation in the Senate.
Megyn, we need a commander in chief that speaks the truth. We will not defeat radical Islamic terrorism so long as we have a president unwilling to utter the words, radical Islamic terrorism.When I asked General Dempsey, the chairman of the joint chiefs, what would be required militarily to destroy ISIS, he said there is no military solution. We need to change the conditions on the ground so that young men are not in poverty and susceptible to radicalization. That, with all due respect, is nonsense.Its the same answer the State Department gave that we need to give them jobs. What we need is a commander in chief that makes  clear, if you join ISIS, if you wage jihad on America, then you are signing your death warrant.
Megyn, of course its an ideological problem, thats one of the reasons I introduce the Expatriate Terrorist Act in the Senate that said if any American travels to the Middle East and joining ISIS, that he or she forfeits their citizenship so they dont use a passport to come back and wage jihad on Americans.
Yes, it is ideological, and let me contrast President Obama, who at the prayer breakfast, essentially acted as an apologist. He said, Well, gosh, the crusades, the inquisitionsWe need a president that shows the courage that Egypts President al-Sisi, a Muslim, when he called out the radical Islamic terrorists who are threatening the world.
Well, Bret, of course they have, and over the last six and a half years weve seen the consequences of the Obama-Clinton foreign policy. Leading from behind is a disaster. We have abandoned and alienated our friends and allies, and our enemies are stronger. Radical Islam is on the rise, Irans on the verge of acquiring a nuclear weapon, China is waging cyber warfare against America, Russia  General Soleimani, you just mentioned, the Iranian general is the head of the al Quds forces.Hes directly responsible for the murder of over 500 American servicemen in Iraq, and part of this Iranian deal was lifting the international sanctions on General Soleimani. The day General Soleimani flew back from Moscow to Iran was the day we believed that Russia used cyber warfare against the joint chiefs. We need a new commander in chief that will stand up to our enemies, and that will have credibility...It is worth emphasizing that Iran released our hostages in 1981 the day Ronald Reagan was sworn into office.
Brett, can I  Brett, can I jump in on this one?
Well, I am blessed to receive a word from God every day in receiving the scriptures and reading the scriptures. And God speaks through the Bible.Im the son of a pastor and evangelist and Ive described many times how my father, when I was a child, was an alcoholic. He was not a Christian. And my father left my mother and left me when I was just three years old.And someone invited him to Clay Road Baptist Church. And he gave his heart to Jesus and it turned him around. And he got on a plane and he flew back to my mother and me.I would also note that the scripture tells us, you shall know them by their fruit. We see lots of campaign conservatives. But if were going to win in 2016, we need a consistent conservative, someone who has been a fiscal conservative, a social conservative, a national security conservative.There are real differences among the candidates on issues like amnesty, like Obamacare, like religious liberty, like life and marriage. And I have been proud to fight and stand for religious liberty, to stand against Planned Parenthood, to defend life for my entire career.And I will be proud to continue to do so as president of the United States.
If Im elected president, let me tell you about my first day in office. The first thing I intend to do is to rescind every illegal and unconstitutional executive action taken by Barack Obama.
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice to open an investigation into these videos and to prosecute Planned Parenthood for any criminal violations.
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice and the IRS to start (sic) persecuting religious liberty, and then intend to cancel the Iran deal, and finally move the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.
I will keep my word. My father fled Cuba, and I will fight to defend liberty because my family knows what its like to lose it.
Well, we have 80 years of precedent of not confirming Supreme Court justices in an election year. 
Eighty years of not confirming. For example, L.B.J. nominated Abe Fortas. Fortas did not get confirmed. He was defeated.
In this case its both.
Justice Scalia was a legal giant. He was somebody that I knew for 20 years. He was a brilliant man. He was faithful to the Constitution. He changed the arc of American legal history. And Ill tell you, his passing tonight, our prayers are with his family, with his wife, Maureen, who he adored, his nine children, his 36 grandkids. But it underscores the stakes of this election.
We are one justice away from a Supreme Court that will strike down every restriction on abortion adopted by the states. We are one justice away from a Supreme Court that will reverse the Heller decision, one of Justice Scalias seminal decisions, that upheld the Second Amendment right to keep and to bear arms.We are one justice away from a Supreme Court that would undermine the religious liberty of millions of Americans  and the stakes of this election, for this year, for the Senate, the Senate needs to stand strong and say, Were not going to give up the U.S. Supreme Court for a generation by allowing Barack Obama to make one more liberal appointee.And then for the state of South Carolina, one of the most important judgments for the men and women of South Carolina to make is who on this stage has the background, the principle, the character, the judgment and the strength of resolve to nominate and confirm principled constitutionalists to the court? That will be what I will do if Im elected president.
Well, we need to focus on what the objective is, you know? Your question about the first three questions you would ask in this Situation Room. I think it is a problem if the president, commander in chief, weve elected does not have the experience and background to understand the threats facing this country coming in on Day 1.If you look at the threats facing this country, the single gravest threat, national security threat, is the threat of a nuclear Iran. Thats why Ive pledged on Day 1 to rip to shreds this Iranian nuclear deal, and anyone that thinks you can negotiate Khamenei does not understand the nature of Khamenei.When it comes to ISIS, weve got to have a focused objective. One of the problems of Barack Obama and Hillary Clintons foreign policy, and, sadly, too many establishment Republicans in Washington, is they focus on issues unrelated to protecting this country. They focus on nation building, they focus on toppling governments to promote democracy, and it ends up undermining our national security.Now, with regard to ISIS, we need a commander in chief that sets the objective we will utterly defeat them because they have declared war. Theyve declared a jihad on us.Now, what do we need to carry that out. We need overwhelming air power, we need to arm the Kurds, who can be our boots on the ground, and if ground troops are necessary, then we should employ them, but it shouldnt be politicians demonstrating political toughness. It should be military expert judgment carrying out the objectives set out by the commander in chief.
We have Kurds in both Iraq and Syria. They are fighting ISIS right now. They are winning victories right now. ISIS is using American military equipment theyve seized in Iraq. And the Obama administration refuses to arm the Kurds, the pesh merga, the fighting forces who have been longtime allies.We ought to be arming them and letting them fight. Now, if we need to embed Special Forces to direct our overwhelming air power, if it is required to use ground troops to defeat ISIS, we should use them, but we ought to start with using our incredible air power advantage.The first Persian Gulf War, we launched 1,100 air attacks a day. Today, were launching between 15 and 30. Were not using the tools we have, and its because the commander in chief is not focused on defeating the enemy.Well, let me say it at the outset that everyone here understands  everyone understands that how  that the middle class has been left behind in the last seven years of the Obama economy, and weve got to bring jobs back. Weve got to get people back to work. Weve got to get wages going up again. Weve got to get people moving from part-time work to full-time work.We all agree on that, but its not going to be solved with magic pixie dust. Its just going to be solved by declaring into the air, Let there be jobs. We actually have to understand the principles that made America great in the first place.Now, where do you get economic growth? If you look at cause and effect over our nations history, every time we lessen the burden of Washington on small-business owners, on job creators, we see incredible economic growth. You do that through tax reform and regulatory reform.My tax plan  typical family of four, first $36,000 you earn, you pay nothing in taxes  no income taxes, no payroll taxes, no nothing. Above 10 percent, everyone pays the same simple, flat 10 percent income rate. Its flat and fair. You can fill out your taxes on a postcard, and we abolish the I.R.S. If you want to see the postcard, Ive got it on my website.
Now, Major, the business flat tax that is in my tax plan is not a VAT. A VAT in Europe is a sales tax. The business flat tax is not a sales tax, it is a tax of 16 percent opposed fairly and evenly across the board on all business.One of the things thats critical is were doing that in conjunction with abolishing the corporate income tax, with abolishing the Obamacare taxes, with abolishing the payroll taxes, which are the biggest taxes paid by most working Americans, and with abolishing the death tax, which is cruel and unfair. And you asked about economic growth  the nonpartisan Tax Foundation estimated a simple flat tax that would produce 4.9 million new jobs, it would increase capital investment by 44 percent and would lift everyones income by double digits.Thats how you turn the country around, not just hoping and praying for it, but implementing policies that work.Well, you know, your question highlights a sharp difference on immigration on this stage. You know, in a Republican primary, everyone talks tough on immigration. Everyone is against illegal immigration in a Republican primary. But as voters, weve been burned over and over again by people that give us a great campaign speech and they dont walk the walk.There are sharp differences on amnesty. If you look at the folks on this stage, when Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer and establishment Republicans were leading the fight to pass a massive amnesty plan, I stood with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and the American people and led the fight to defeat that amnesty plan.That moment was what Reagan would call a time for choosing. When it comes to deciding which side of the line youre on, the Rubio-Schumer amnesty plan apparently supported by the donor class, which is why Washington supported it. The Rubio-Schumer amnesty plan passed the Senate, and it was on the verge of passing the House.House leadership intended to take it up and pass it with the Democrats overruling most of the Republicans. And the question for anyone on illegal immigration is, where were you in that fight? Where did you stand?You are right. There is a difference between Senator Rubio and me on this question.
Major, I get a response to that.
You know, the lines are very, very clear. Marco right now supports citizenship for 12 million people here illegally. I oppose citizenship. Marco stood on the debate stage and said that.
But I would note not only that  Marco has a long record when it comes to amnesty. In the state of Florida, as speaker of the house, he supported in- state tuition for illegal immigrants. In addition to that, Marco went on Univision in Spanish and said he would not rescind President Obamas illegal executive amnesty on his first day in office.I have promised to rescind every single illegal executive action, including that one.
That is absolutely false. What he said is knowingly false.
If you want to assess who is telling the truth then you should look to Jeff Sessions, who said, without Ted Cruz the Rubio-Schumer amnesty bill would have passed, and Ted was responsible. 
I think it is a very important question because the people who have been hurt the most in the Obama economy had been the most vulnerable. Its been young people. Its been Hispanics. Its been African-Americans. Its been single moms. We have the lowest percentage of Americans working today in any year since 1977.And the sad reality is big government, massive taxes, massive regulation, doesnt work. What we need to do instead is bring back booming economic growth, let  small businesses are the heart of the economy. Two-thirds of all new jobs come from small businesses. If we want to lift people out of poverty  you know, I think of these issues from the perspective of my dad.My dad fled Cuba in 1957. He was just 18. He couldnt speak English. He had nothing. He had $100 in his underwear. And he washed dishes making 50 cents an hour and paid his way through school. Today, my dad is a pastor. He travels the country preaching the gospel.Now, I think about all of these issues. How would it impact my dad when he was washing dishes? If we had Obamacare in place right now, the odds are very high my father would have been laid off, because its teenaged kids like my dad who have gotten laid off. If he didnt get laid off, the odds are high he would have had his hours forcibly reduced to 28, 29 hours a week.We need to lift the burdens on small businesses so you have jobs, and we need welfare reform that gets people off of welfare and back to work.You know, flexibility is a good thing, but it shouldnt  you shouldnt be flexible on core principles. For most of his life, his policies have been very, very liberal. For most of his life, he has described himself as very pro- choice and as a supporter of partial birth abortion. Right now, today, as a candidate, he supports federal taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. I disagree with him on that.I will say, it is fairly remarkable to see Donald defending Ben after he called, pathological, and compared him to a child molester. Both of which were offensive and wrong.But let me say this  you notice Donald didnt disagree with the substance that he supports taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. And Donald has this weird pattern, when you point to his own record, he screams, Liar, liar, liar.
If you want to watch the video, go to our website at Tedcruz.org. 
You can see it out of Donalds own mouth.
You supported it when we were battling over defunding Planned Parenthood.
You said, Planned Parenthood does wonderful things and we should not defund it.
Don, the reasoned principle matters. The reasoned principle matters, sadly was illustrated by the first questions today. The next president is going to appoint one, two, three, four Supreme Court justices.If Donald Trump is president, he will appoint liberals. If Donald Trump is president, your Second Amendment will gone...
You know how I know that?
I did not nominate John Roberts. I would not have nominated John Roberts.
You need to learn to not interrupt people.
Adults learn not to interrupt people.
I did not nominate him. I would not have nominated him. I wouldve nominated my former boss Liberman, who was Justice Scalias first law clerk. And you know how I know that Donalds Supreme Court justices will be liberals? Because his entire life, he support liberals from Jimmy Carter, to Hillary Clinton, to John Kerry.In 2004, he contributed to John Kerry. Nobody who cares about judges would contribute to John Kerry, Hillary Clinton, Chuck Schumer and Harry Reid.
Thats what Donald Trump does.
South Carolina, you have a critical choice to make. Our country literally hangs in the balance.Do you want another Washington deal maker who will do business as usual, cut deals with the Democrats, grow government, grow debt and give up our fundamental liberties? Or do you want a conservative, a proven conservative that will stand and fight with you each and every day?Listen, repealing Obamacare is not going to be easy. Passing a simple flat tax that abolishes the I.R.S. is not going to be easy, but if we stand with the American people, we can do it.And today, we saw just how great the stakes are. Two branches of government hang in the balance. Not just the presidency but the Supreme Court. If we get this wrong, if we nominate the wrong candidates, the Second Amendment, life, marriage, religious liberty  every one of those hangs in the balance.
My little girls are here. I dont want to look my daughters in the eyes and say, We lost their liberties. Who do you know will defend the Constitution and Bill of Rights? And as a commander in chief, who do you know will stand up to our enemies as the clam, steady, deliberate, strength to defeat our enemies, to secure our borders and to keep America safe.
Hello.Thank you. Well, it feels fantastic. I mean, what we're really seeing  we're seeing that old Reagan coalition come together. You know, what was interesting Anderson  in Iowa, all the pundits in Iowa said that, "we didn't have a prayer." Every person on television was saying, "Donald Trump was going to win. Donald Trump was going to win."And then, we saw record shattering turnout show up. And you know what was so encouraging? The folks that came together, it was that old Reagan coalition. So we wo among conservatives but we also won among evangelicals. We won among Reagan democrats and we won among young people.That's the coalition it's going to take I think to win the nomination but also to win the general election. And we needed up  our campaign earned more votes than any campaign in the history of the Iowa Republican Caucuses. It really was a testament to the grassroots.Ill confess, I laughed. This has not been a typical race by any sense and I don't think anyone is surprised that Donald is threatening to sue people. He's done that most of his adult life.But this letter really was  look, I've practiced of 20 years and this letter really pressed the bounds of the frivolous and ridiculous letters I've ever seen. He was upset about an ad that we're running on T.V. The ad talks about the vacancy of the Supreme Court and that we've got issues such as life, and marriage, and religious liberty, and the second amendment that are in the ballots.It plays Donald Trump doing an interview Time Russert where he explains in his own words, he says," he's very very pro-choice, he supports partial birth abortion " and he says, "he's pro-choice in every respect." But most of the words in the ad are his own words on national television and his argument in the letter is running his own words, was defamation.It is quite literally the most ridiculous theory I've ever heard, that telling the voters what Donald Trumps actual record is is deceitful and lying...And, listen, I said this morning - held a press conference where I read his letter to everyone, and I invited Mr. Trump. I said, please, Donald. File this lawsuit.And, you know why? Well, that's part of it, is that in any defamation case truth is a complete defense, and so his lawyer said he said that saying he's pro-choice, which actually we don't say he's pro-choice. Donald says he's pro-choice in every respect.Well, let's put it this way, four days ago on the debate stage, Donald Trump explained how many wonderful things he thought Planned Parenthood does. That was four days ago. Planned Parenthood is the largest abortionist in this country. They are responsible for taking the lives of millions of unborn children.I'll tell you, nobody who is actually pro-life can stand up on national stage and sing the praises of planned parenthood as wonderful - I don't think they do anything wonderful, and I don't think we need to be sending federal taxpayer funds to an organization that on video has been implicated in what appears to be multiple federal felonies.Well, look, as I laid out. So, his claim is if you tell people his record, if you actually show Donald Trump on national television his own words, that he's going t file a lawsuit to prevent you from doing that.I pointed out, listen, we've got at least four pieces of evidence. Number one his own words on national television. Number two, what he said on the debate stage four days ago, singing the praises of Planned Parenthood. Number three, last year, not very long ago, when talking about Supreme Court nominees, Donald said his sister - now his sister is a Court of Appeals judge who was put on the Court of Appeals by Bill Clinton.He said his sister would make a phenomenal Supreme Court Justice.Now, listen, it's great to support your sister, that's a nice thing. But, if you're actually suggesting someone for the Supreme Court, his sister is a radical pro-abortion judge. She struck down New Jersey's ban on partial-birth abortion as irrational. That's an extreme position. That's who he suggested as a Supreme Court Justice last year.And, one of the things I layed out, listen. Donald, for the last four decades has written checks to Democrats over, and over, and over again. From Jimmy Carter, to Hillary Clinton, to John Kerry, to Chuck Schumer, to Harry Reid. Yeah, but it's not friends, and he's given - so, in 2006, for example, when the Democrats took over Congress Donald and his son gave about three times as much t the Democrats as they did to the Republicans. They helped fund putting Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid as Speaker of the House and Majority Leader of the Senate. Theyhelped set the stage for Obamacare.And, for anyone that actually cares for conservative judges, I'll tell you, Anderson, there is no universe in which I could write a check to Chuck Schumer or Harry Reid, or Hillary Clinton, or John Kerry, or Joe Biden, or Jimmy Carter, and anyone who's done that by definition does not care about conservative justices because the people he supported fought tooth and nail to put liberals on the Supreme Court. I think the stakes are too high for that.I believe they should. They have a binding search order. And, listen, any time you're dealing with issues of security, and civil liberties, you got to balance them both And, I think we can walk and chew gum at the same time. We can protect yourself from terrorist, and also protect our civil rights.Well, listen. I think Apple has a serious argument that they should not be forced to put a backdoor in every cell phone everyone has. That creates a real security exposure for hackers, cyber criminals to break into our cell phones. So, I think Apple has the right side on the global don't make us do this to every iPhone on the market.But, I think law enforcement has the better argument. This concerns the phone of one of the San Bernardino hackers, and for law enforcement to get a judicial search order that's consistent with the Fourth Amendment. That's how the bill of rights operates.To say, Apple, open this phone. Not Anderson's phone, law enforcement has the better argument. This concerns the phone of one of the San Bernardino hackers. And for law enforcement to get a judicial search order, that's consistent with the Fourth Amendment. That how the Bill of Rights operates.To say, Apple, open this phone, not Anderson's phone, not everyone's here, open this phone.But they wouldn't have to put it on everyone's phone. And that's - I believe that Apple, anyone, nobody has a right to defy a legal search warrant. And the way ou process works, look, banks all the time keep financial records.And if you or I are a terrorist, if we're a drug dealer, and a search warrant is served on your bank, they can get your financial records. That's how the law enforcement system works.And the Bill of Rights prevents the government from seizing our information without any evidence, but when you have a criminal, when you have a terrorist, we know the San Bernardino terrorists were radical Islamic terrorists.If the Obama administration were not in this politically correct state of denial, ignoring that it is radical Islamic terrorism, we should have done more to prevent that attack.But after the fact, we ought to be doing every tool we can to ascertain who else they might be in contact with, if there's a broader cell. So, of course, we should unlock thei phones and find out who they're talking to, what texts they're sending, and that's a basic matter keeping this country safe.It is not as long as the Castros are in power. And I will say I was saddened to hear that I wasn't surprised. This was foreshadowed for a long time.And, you know, President Obama's foreign policy has consistently alienated and abandoned our friends. There has never been an administration more hostile and antagonistic to Israel than the Obama administration.And what President Obama has shown to our enemies is weakness and appeasement. So his policy concerning Cuba and Iran both have parallels where he's allowing billions of dollars to go to tyrants who hate America, who are state sponsors of terrorism, who are fighting against our nation.I think it's a real mistake. I think the president ought to instead be pushing for a free Cuba. It's 90 miles off the coast of America. And to go there and essentially act as an apologist - you know, it was really striking when the Cuban officials came to Washington with the opening of the embassy, a Cuban dissident came, and came to the press conference and wanted to ask a question.And the John Kerry State Department said, if she asked a question, she would be forcibly and physically removed. And I - you know, I remember being astonished, becaus said, look, I expected that treatment in Cuba. That's what they do to free speech here.But the Obama State Department was happy to silence a dissident to protect the Cubans from even asking questions. I mean, listen, my dad was imprisoned and tortured i Cuba. He fought with Castro in the revolution and he was imprisoned and tortured by Bautista.And then my aunt, my Tia Sonia, was imprisoned and tortured by Castro. And so my family has seen firsthand the evil and the oppression in Cuba. And we need to have president that stands up to our enemies, that doesn't - you know, if you look at Cuba when the Soviet Union collapsed, they lost their major patron, their source of money.But then what happened is Venezuela stepped in and became a patron. And you saw the oil revenues and actually Cuba had a corrupt bargain where they would send thugs they would send soldiers down to Venezuela, that they would use to oppress the citizens there and in exchange Venezuela would send money.Well, as oil prices have been tanking, Venezuela's economy is in freefall. And suddenly Cuba was again on the ropes. The Castros were again on the ropes. And just like with Iran, the Obama administration steps in with a lifeline.And I'll tell you one of the things, Anderson, I'm very concerned about, is that Obama is emptying Guantanamo. He is releasing terrorists that our soldiers bled and died to capture.And the next president is going to have to send soldiers out to capture them again or kill them when they return to waging jihad. And I fear that by the end of this year President Obama plans to give the Guantanamo Navy Base back to Cuba, which would be undermining U.S. national security interests profoundly.I hope he doesn't do that. But it is consistent with his pattern of the last seven years. I think it is a profound risk. 
If they are terrorists who are waging jihad there, then they should be detained in Guantanamo. We could have military tribunals if need be. We can interrogate them. But the Bill of Rights does not apply to foreigners who are waging war against America.The Bill of Rights applies to Americans. And the people in Guantanamo, at this point, it's down to the worst of the worst. You know, a really alarming percentage of the people released from Guantanamo return immediately to waging jihad, return immediately to going back trying to murder Americans.Among percentage of the people released from Guantanamo return immediately to waging jihad, return immediately to going back, trying to murder Americans. And part of the consequence of Obama is he engages in this - this politically correct denial where he and Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and the whole Democratic Party, they won't even say the words, radical Islamic terrorism. They don't acknowledge what they're fighting.And it's part of the reason why we are so vulnerable, because we don't have the a commander-in-chief that is fighting the enemy and defeating the enemy.On this, I am going to shamelessly waffle and say I love them both. 
Thank you.Absolutely.Well, Donna, thank you for that question and thank you very much for your leadership.You know, I have been blessed in many regards, but in no way greater than - than marrying the love of my life, Heidi Cruz. She is an extraordinary woman. She is - she is the daughter of Christian missionaries. And so Heidi, as a little girl, lived in Africa. She lived in Kenya and Nigeria and her parents were missionaries there. Her brother is a missionary in Haiti right now.And she is - I met Heidi on January 2 of 2000. We were brought working on the George W. Bush campaign. And we started dating on January 5th, three days later. And i was love at first sight. I mean I was smitten by her hard.I mean she is beautiful, she's brilliant, she's an unbelievable businesswoman. But she's also the most loving mom and wife. We are best friends in a very real sense. We're on the phone two, three, four, five times a day. We call each other on everything. We cooperate on everything.She is out on the trail. I cannot tell you how many people, as I've traveled around, when I got elected to the Senate, said, listen, Ted, you're fine, but we love Heidi, so we'r voting for you for Heidi. And I was like, well, I - I'm thrilled and I'll take it.You know, she's got a real heart for economic development. You know, when you've seen, as a little girl, poverty, poverty in Africa, when you've seen suffering - you know Heidi and I traveled down to Nicaragua with a mission trip to drill a water well in an impoverished village. And when you've seen people that are really hurting, you understand that - that we need policies to lift people out of poverty.And I think Heidi has a real heart here in America for helping people lift out of the poverty by empowering them, empowering them to start small businesses. Empowerin them to achieve the American dream. And, you know, an important part of that is also educational options and school choice. I think school choice is the civil rights issueof 21st century. I think every child in America deserves access to a quality education.And so Heidi and I, in this campaign, we are full and total partners. She is, right now, on the campaign trail. I'm on the campaign trail. My dad is on the campaign trail. Our little girls even sometimes are on the campaign trail.But - but I think - I think she will be involved in a lot of things if we win and - but I think she has a real passion where she's going to focus a lot of energy is economic empowerment, helping people and especially women, especially Hispanics and African-Americans, those who are struggling, helping them achieve the American dream bunderstanding the principles of business, starting a business, expanding and achieving greater opportunity. 
Um, well, embarrassingly enough, yes. And I am a painfully horrible singer. 
Well, I'm hoping it is sort of sincere and endearing. 
I actually don't sing musicals.I mean I will sing things like, uh, on my darling, oh my darling, oh my darling, Heidi time.Which is really corny, but - but, you know, I used to do it when she put it on speaker phone in her office and embarrass her or, you know, I'd kind of do, you know you know, I just called to say I love you. I just called to say I care. I cannot sing to save my life, but - but, uh, but my wife seems to at least laugh at it.I just call to say, I love you. I just called to say I care.I cannot sing to save my life, but my wife seems to at least laugh at it.Well, Bobby, let me say first of all, thank you for your service and sacrifice. Thank you for defending this nation.And, you're question incredibly important. As I travel South Carolina I meet everyday, active-duty military. I meet, everyday, veterans who are so unhappy with th direction we're going right now. For seven years we've had a commander in chief who doesn't believe in the mission of the military. Who doesn't stand by them, who has weakened and degraded the military in a way that this' undermined readiness, and made us far less able to defend ourselves.Yesterday, here in South Carolina, I rolled out a comprehensive plan to rebuild the military. To restore the strength that we need to defend ourselves. And, you know, if you think about the last time our military was badly weakened, it was 1980. It was following the Jimmy Carter administration, another weak Democratic president who undermined the military.And, when Reagan came in, what Reagan did is he started with tax reform and regulatory reform. He lifted the burdens on small businesses. Than unchained the American free enterprise system. It produced incredible booming economic growth. That growth, in turn, that provided trillions in new federal revenue.Reagan invested that revenue in rebuilding the military. And, but doing so, bankrupted the Soviet Union and now the Cold War. We need a president in 2017 who does the exact same thing with regard to radical Islamic terrorism. That is what I intend to do - is start with tax reform, and regulatory reform. I will unleash the American economy and use that economic growth to rebuild the military.So, for example, as you know, President Obama's proposed reducing the regular Army to 450,000. I think that is far below what is needed to keep this country safe. I inten to increase it to a minimum of 525,000 soldiers. Likewise the Air Force.The Air Force has been reduced to about 4,000 planes. We need to increase that to a minimum of 6,000 planes so that we can project power, and use our air power superiority.The Navy. We've got 272 ships, the least we've had since 1917, literally a century ago was the last time we had a navy with this few ships. We need to increase that to a minimum of 350 ships. And, we need an overall force level of 1.4 million troops at a minimum. In addition to that, we need to dramatically expand missile defense as we see asymmetric threats, we see rogue nations, we need to be able to defend ourselves. We need to expand cyber defense.But, we also need to focus our foreign policy and military policy on identifying and defeating the real enemies. You know, I've got strong disagreements with the mistakes o the Obama-Clinton foreign policy the last seven years. One perfect example is Libya.Libya. President Obama and Hillary Clinton led the world in toppling the government in Libya, and sadly they were supported by more than a few establishment Republicans, including several who are running for President. That has proven to be a catastrophic mistake.Toppling the government in Libya meant we handed that country to radical Islamic terrorists. It's now a chaotic war zone where ISIS and other radical Islamic terrorists pos an acute national security threat to this country. And, it led directly to failures of the Obama-Clinton foreign policy, led directly to the tragedy of Benghazi.Rather than engaging in trying to topple governments in the Middle East, and nation build, I think the focus of the military needs to be defending this country, protecting ou national security interests. So, what should we be doing?Oh, and by the way, many of those same folks, Obama, Hillary, and those same Republicans, are now saying we should do the same thing in Syria. Topple Assad. 
 Oh, and by the way, many of those same folks, Obama, Hillary, and those same Republicans, are now saying we should do the same thing in Syria. Topple Assa And, if we do that the same result is going to happen. If we topple Assad - Assad's a bad man. But, if we topple Assad, ISIS will take over Syria. That is worse for AmericaInstead of getting in the middle of civil wars, we ought to be focusing on the enemies of America. We ought to be utterly destroying ISIS. We ought to be using overwhelming airpower, we ought to be arming the Kurds, we ought to be using the tools we have to utterly, and completely destroy them.And, I'll say a couple of things also.When it comes to the men and women of the military, I don't think the military should be governed by political correctness. Should be governed - should be used as for social experiments. So, for example, if I am elected president we will not be drafting our daughters into combat on the front lines.I was astonished two debates ago when three different Republican candidates for President stood up and supported drafting women into combat. I think that doesn't make any sense, you know? When I was sitting there listening to it I kind of wondered if Rod Serling was going to walk out in a second and say, "You've entered the Twilight Zone."Look, I'm the father of two daughters. Women can do anything, but the idea that the federal government would forcibly conscript young women and put them into combat, that makes no sense at all.Another one of the most shameful things that, I think, of the last seven years is that we are sending our service men and women into combat with rules of engagement that have their arms tied behind their back. That have it impossible for them to fight and defend themselves and win, I think that is immoral, it is wrong, and I will tell you this.give you my word as commander in chief, that will end on January 20th, 2017. 
I thought it was ridiculous. I thought it was really painful. Listen, I like Donald. I am not going to engage in personal attacks, but I think his policy positions have not made any sense.When he stood up and defended impeaching George W. Bush - that was his position. George W. Bush should have been impeached.Listen, I'm a constitutionalist. My entire adult life has been spent defending the Constitution, defending the Bill of Rights. The standard for impeachment is high crimes an misdemeanors. He had no argument that George Bush committed any high crimes and misdemeanors. He just said on the stage it was a mistake.You know, you don't impeach people for things you say are a mistake. And, at the time that Donald Trump was promoting impeachment, look, that was the - those were th views of the Michael Moore's of the extreme fever-swamp of the left. And, I have to say to see on a Republican presidential stage a candidate suggesting we should have impeached George W. Bush. I think that really draws into question the judgement of that candidate to be commander in chief.Pastor.Yes.Well, Pastor, thank you for being here. Thank you for your ministry.You are right. We are seeing an assault on Judeo Christian values. We're seeing an assault on religious liberty, and we need a president who will stand up unambiguously,and protect those values.You know, if you look at life, if you look at marriage, if you look at religious liberty, all three are intertwined, and you know, one of the dynamics you all have notice in a Republican primary is every republican candidate says they support life, marriage, religious liberty. That's what you say when you're running as a Republican candidate for president.My suggestion, Pastor, is don't listen to what any of us say. Instead, follow the biblical test. You shall know them by their fruits. Ask of any candidate, don't tell me you're pro-life. Tell me what you've done to defend the right to life. So, for example, before I was in the Senate I was the Solicitor General of Texas, the chief lawyer for the state in front of the U.S. Supreme Court.We brought together a coalition of states before the U.S. Supreme Court defending the federal ban on partial birth abortion, and we won 5-4. We brought together another coalition of states defending New Hampshire's law. And, we won unanimously.And, in Texas, when the state legislature passed a law banning taxpayer funding going to Planned Parenthood, a federal district court struck down that law. And, I personall argued the appeal in the Court of Appeals, we won unanimously. And in Texas when the state legislature passed a law banning taxpayer funding going to Planned Parenthood, a federal district court struck down that law. And I personally argued the appeal in the Court of Appeals. We won unanimously reinstating that law and defunding Planned Parenthood. So on the question of life, a record matters.Likewise on marriage. You know, in June of last year, we saw a decision from the Supreme Court. It was nothing short of tragic. Now, several of the Republican candidate when that decision came down put out statements that essentially said, "It is the settled law of the land, we must accept it, surrender, and move on." Those are almost word for word the talking points of Barack Obama. I think there's something really wrong when Republican candidates are echoing the talking points of Barack Obama.I'll tell you, my view is very different. I think that decision was fundamentally illegitimate, it was lawless, it was completely inconsistent with the Constitution, and it will not stand. And then on religious liberty. Religious liberty for me has been a lifelong passion. I have spent the last two decades of my life fighting to defend religious liberty.When I was solicitor general of Texas, we defended the Ten Commandments monument that stands on the state capitol grounds. We went to the U.S. Supreme Court, and w won 35-4 upholding the Ten Commandments. We defended the Pledge of Allegiance, the words "one nation under God." We went to the U.S. Supreme Court; we won unanimously.And then in private practice, one of the cases I'm most proud of, is I represented over 3 million veterans pro bono, for free, defending the Mojave Desert Veterans Memorial. This is a loan white Latin cross. It was erected over 70 years ago to honor the men and women that gave their lives in World War I. The ACLU sued, arguing could you not display a cross on public land. They won in the district court, they won in the Court of Appeals. The court ordered a giant sack to be placed over the Veteran Memorial with a change and a padlock at the bottom. And I represented 3 million veterans before the U.S. Supreme Court, defending the Mojave Desert Veterans Memorial. And we won 5-4.This for me is a life passion. And one of the things we've done - the media often belittles threats to religious liberty. They say they don't exist, they're not real. So we've hosted big religious liberty rallies. One in Iowa, one here in South Carolina at Bob Jones University where we brought in heroes, ordinary people. A florist, a baker, a T-shir salesman, a soldier, a fireman to tell their stories. How they stood for faith and they were persecuted. I would commend you, Pastor, and anyone else who wants to seethem. If you go to our web site, it's TedCruz.org, you can watch these stories, and they will uplift you. They will inspire you. How people made a decision: do I honor my faith, or do I give in to the government and be persecuted? And they chose to honor their faith instead.And so when it comes to religious liberty, if I'm elected president, I intend on the first day in office to instruct the U.S. Department of Justice and the IRS and every other federal agency that the persecution of religious liberty ends today.Good evening.Yes.Well, listen, our relationship with Saudi Arabia is, as you know, fraught with complications. They have been allies at times, but at times, the kingdom has been funding radical Islamic terrorism. They have been paying off the wolves in hopes that they will devour others rather that than devour the monarchy.And I think we need to hold our friends to account, that friends do not fund jihadists that are seeking to murder us. And when it comes to Saudi Arabia, we need to have rea scrutiny and real pressure.Now, I'll tell when you I have traveled aboard and met with heads of state and foreign ministers and defense ministers, over and over again what they say right now is it's hard to be friends with America. They say, where is America? America doesn't stand by their friends. That needs to change.Now, with respect to Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arabia is part of OPEC. It's a cartel. They are not seeking our interests, they are seeking their monetary interests. I think what we ought to be doing when it comes to energy is two things. Number one, a significant part of the reason that oil prices and part of OPEC. It's a cartel. They are not seeking our interests; they're seeking their monetary interests. I think what we ought to be doing when it comes to energy is two things - No. 1, a significant part of the reason thatoil prices and commodity prices have fluctuated like crazy is the Federal Reserve has fluctuated from a strong dollar to a weak dollar, and every time that happens, going u and down and up and down, it ends up sending commodity prices soaring and plummeting and soaring and plummeting. And in my view we need to No. 1., audio theFederal Reserve and No. 2, move to a rules-based monetary policy, ideally tied to gold, because when it comes to the dollar we don't want a weak dollar; we don't want a strong dollar. We want a stable dollar. A dollar is a unit of measurement, and we want a dollar to be the same today, tomorrow and the next day, because that's what all of the other economic decisions are based upon, and so I think a significant part of the volatility in the oil market is driven by the fluctuations in the dollar.Beyond that, when it comes to energy, you know, in the Senate, I've introduced legislation called the American Energy Renaissance Act. It is the most comprehensive energy legislation that has been submitted in the U.S. Senate. It would unleash the American energy resources. This country is blessed with abundant natural resources. And my view on energy is we ought to produce all of the above. It ought to be oil, and gas and coal, and wind, and solar, and nuclear, and ethanol, and biofuels andeverything.But you shouldn't have government picking winners and losers. There should be no subsidies. There should be no favoritism. It should be a fair and level playing field fo everyone, so I intend to remove the barriers from Washington, which in turn will allow the American energy market to expand, to create high-paying jobs and to jump start the American economy.Sure, I'm happy to, Julie. Thank you for that question.The law under the Constitution and federal law has been clear since the very first days of the Republican. The child of a U.S. citizen born abroad is a natural-born citizen. What the Constitution requires is for anyone to be president they have to be a natural-born citizen.So if you or I travel abroad and we have a child overseas, that child is a U.S. citizens by virtue of birth. That's true if U.S. service members are travelling abroad. If they're defending this country. You know, Bobby mentioned before he had a couple deployments. If he had a child overseas that child is a natural-born citizen by virtue of the child's parents.Likewise if American missionaries are travelling overseas their children are natural born citizens. That's why John McCain was a natural-born citizen. Even though he was born in Panama, because his parents were U.S. citizens.That's why George Romney, Mitt Romney's dad, was a natural-born citizen, even though he was born in Mexico when his parents were Mormon missionaries. And so the law is straightforward. Indeed the very first Congress, which was - consisted of many of the framers of the Constitution, the authors of the Constitution, wrote the very firs laws on citizenship, and they explicitly defined the child of a U.S. citizen born abroad as a natural-born citizen.Now my mother was born in Wilmington, Delaware. She is a natural-born citizen. I was born in Canada, as you have heard by now.But I was a citizen by birth, by virtue of my mother's citizenship, so I've never been naturalized. I've never breathed a breath of air on this planet when I was not a U.S. citizen. It was the act of being born that made me a U.S. citizen. So under the law, the question is clear. there will still be some that high to work political mischief of it, but as a legal matter, this is clear and straightforward.You know, look, you can never write off the possibility of Donald Trump suing you.He is welcome to file whatever lawsuit he likes. That lawsuit would not succeed. It is not a meritorious lawsuit. If he wants to file a lawsuit, he can file it and lose. But the legal merits of the matter are clear.They should not. For 80 years it has been the practice that the Senate has not confirmed any nomination made during an election year. And we shouldn't make an exception now.You know, it was interesting, Anderson. I don't think they should because it's not about the particular nominee. I think that hearing would end up very politicized. And I don't think it would be fair to the nominee. I think this is a matter of policy, that during a lame duck period we should not be confirming a Supreme Court nomination, particularly, you know, you look at Justice Scalia's passing.Justice Scalia was a lion of the law. He was someone I knew for 20 years. He was brilliant. He was principled. He singlehandedly changed the course of American law. I've said before, like Ronald Reagan was to the presidency, so Justice Scalia was to the Supreme Court.And his passing leaves a huge void on that court. And this court - this nomination has the potential to dramatically shift the balance of power of the court. And so I believ we should have - we have an election coming up in November.I think 2016 should be a referendum on the Supreme Court.And, you know, it was striking, the last Republican debate occurred the same day that we learned Justice Scalia passed, and I think that shifted. It really made people focus on the gravity of the stakes here.You know, you mentioned before the new poll today that has us in first place nationwide. It's the first time Donald Trump has not been in first place in many, many months. And, I think this is an important reason why, that people were looking at that stage and saying who do I know beyond a shadow of a doubt would nominate and fight to confirm principled conservative jurists who would defend the constitution?You know, I mention before an answer to the pastor's question. The cases that I've litigated defending religious liberty, defending life, almost all of those were 5-4. We are one liberal justice away from the Supreme Court striking down every restriction on abortion that's been put in place the last 40 years. We are one liberal justice away from the Supreme Court writing the Second Amendment out of the Constitution. We are one liberal justice away from the Supreme Court ordering Tend Commandments monuments to be torn down, ordering veterans memorials to be torn down, and undermining our fundamental religious liberty.And, I think one of the most important questions in this election is who understands and is prepared and committed to fight for principled Supreme Court justices who will follow the constitution. And, I got to tell you, Anderson, I cannot wait to stand on that debate stage with Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and take it to the American people.Their vision of the Supreme Court and the Constitution is a Supreme Court that mandates unlimited abortion on demand, that takes away our Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms, that takes away our religious liberty. I don't think that's what the American people believe in. But, we ought to take it to the election, and if the Democrats want to nominate a liberal they need to win the election. I don't believe they're going to do it.And, one of the reasons conservatives, I think, are uniting behind my campaign is they're coming to the conclusion that I have the experience, the background, and the commitment to the constitution to make that case against Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders, and then to follow through and put principled jurists on the court.You know, I got to say, Anderson, this is a strange election season. In many ways, both Donald Trump and Marco Rubio are following this pattern that whenever anyone points to their actual record, to what they've said, to what they've voted on, to what they've done, they start screaming liar, liar, liar.I mean, it is the oddest thing. I can't think of any precedent in any previous Republican presidential election.Now, from my end, I have not and will not respond in kind. If they want to engage in personal insults, if they want to go to the mud, I'm not going to say the same thing about them. I think the people of South Carolina deserve more than people just throwing mud at each other.But, you know, look - let's take for example the debate on Saturday. So, I mentioned on Saturday on the debate stage that Donald Trump for 60 years of his life has described himself as very pro-choice, as supporting partial birth abortion, as, quote, "Pro-Choice in every respect".And, I mentioned that even now Donald Trump supports taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. And, his response was to bellow, liar, liar. And, he said, when did I eve say that?And, I responded, I said, well, when we were debating defunding Planned Parenthood I was leading that fight. You opposed me, and you said on national television you think Planned Parenthood does wonderful things.And then, Anderson, Donald proceeded to say on the debate stage once again, he thinks Planned Parenthood does wonderful things. The very thing he called me a liar for h agreed with on the stage.You know, a few minutes later we had an exchange with Marco Rubio - and listen, I like Marco. He's charming, he's a friend of mine, he's very, very talented. But, what I said, and my focus is on record, and substance, and issues, and vision for this country. I think that's what the voters are interested in.But, I made three statements about Marco's immigration record in the debate. I said, number one, Marco right now supports granting citizenship to the 12 million people who are here illegally.Now, that is a fact. He said that on the debate stage two or three debates ago. In fact, on Meet the Press with Chuck Todd just a few weeks ago Marco said we should grant citizenship to people here illegally even if they have criminal convictions. He said that on national television looking into the t.v. camera.The second thing I said is I said when he was in Florida, he supported in-state tuition for illegal immigrants. That's a fact. That is his legislative record.And the third thing I said is I said that he went on Univision and in Spanish said that he would not rescind the president's illegal executive amnesty on his first day in office. If I am elected president, the first day in office, I intend to rescind every single illegal and unconstitutional executive action.Now, in response to that, Marco followed the same strategy as Donald, he just screamed liar, liar, liar. He didn't actually dispute any of the substance. You remember wha he said at the same time was, well, how would you know what I said on Univision? You don't speak Spanish.Well, Marco was incorrect on that. But, look, truth matters. Every one of these issues, Donald and Marco are on video on national television stating their positions. And just yelling liar doesn't make it so.And I would note, by the way, if Marco is right that I'm lying, then I'll tell you else has to be lying, Jeff Sessions has to be lying, Mike Lee has to be lying, Mark Levin has to be lying, Rush Limbaugh has to be lying, Phyllis Schlafly has to be lying, James Dobson has to be lying, because every one of them has said the exact same thing I did, most of those folks haven't endorsed me.They're not supporting me, but they've spoken the truth. And it cannot be - look, one of the things I love about the people of South Carolina is how seriously they take thei responsibility to vet the candidates.So you can go - you can go to our Web site, watch the video and see Marco and Donald stating their positions. And I'm going to continue focusing on issues and record, an just yelling insults and liar is not a response when you want to run away from your record.Hi, Robert.Thank you.It's a great question, Robert, thank you for asking it.Let me focus on two levels. Let me, number one, explain why that is, and then, number two, how we actually change the direction in Washington.The reason why that is, is simple. It's not that I speak with a lack of civility or respect. I mean, you've seen in this presidential campaign, as other people insult me, impug my integrity, I don't respond in kind.I try very much - you know, the Bible talks about if someone treats you unkindly, repay them with kindness. It's like heaping coals on top of their head.That has been the standard I've tried to follow. That's how I've approached it in the Senate. So I have not attacked or insulted my colleagues in the Senate, Democrat or Republican.Even if I disagree with them on the issues, I'll tell you why they say Ted is unlikable in Washington. Because I'm actually honoring the commitments that I made to the me and women who elected me.So, for example, on Planned Parenthood, I led the fight for to use the budgetary power of Congress to stop giving $500 million to Planned Parenthood. What Republican leadership wanted to do is have a show vote, lose the show vote, and then fund all of Obama's agenda, including Planned Parenthood.So what's unlikable is when you stand up and say, how about we do what we said we would do? Likewise, when I stood up and led the fight against Obamacare, they said that was unlikable.When I stood up and led the fight against the Rubio-Schumer amnesty bill, they said that was unlikable. You know why? Because all the money in Washington, all the lobbyists in Washington wanted amnesty.If you look at K Street, if you at the special interests, if you look at Wall Street, amnesty they think is great. It's cheap labor. And so when you actually stand up - and by the way, the way we won these fights is that I stood up and tried to shine a light on them, shine attention on them and empower the American people.So, for example, amnesty, Rubio-Schumer amnesty passed the Senate. Every Democrat voted for it. And a whole bunch of establishment Republicans. And it was heade to the House to pass.House leadership, John Boehner, intended to take it up, pass it with all the Democrats and a handful of Republicans, roll over about 200 House Republicans. And I stood with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and we took the case to the American people.And what happened is millions of American people rose up, lit up the phones to Congress and said, don't do this. And we defeated the Rubio-Schumer amnesty bill in the House.Now in the world of Washington, that's considered unlikable. When Republican leadership - you know, I wrote a book last year called "A Time for Truth."The opening chapter is entitled "Mendacity." It describes the inside story of what happened on the debt ceiling, where Republican leadership wanted to make it easier for Harry Reid to add trillions in debt to our country, and I objected to that.And, the act of objecting, of honoring the promise I made to the men and women who elected me engendered more animosity and unhappiness than anything I've done in my time in the Senate.You know, just this morning, Senator Jim DeMint, tremendously respected former Senator here from South Carolina, was on a radio interview. He addressed this question, he said, listen. Ted is friend. Anyone who says he's unlikeable is being ridiculous. They said the same thing about me, Jim DeMint said, because Jim DeMint honored the commitments he made to the men and women of South Carolina, and Republican leadership hated Jim DeMint because, not that he spoke mean about them, but because h actually said let's do what we said we would do.So, let's take the second half of your question.How do we fix the problems? Because we actually need to fix them, not just talk about them, we need to change the direction of this country.A president has really three levers, the presidential authority to change the direction of this country. Number one is executive power, that's been the one that Obama has abused so much. Now, the silver lining is everything done with executive power can be undone with executive power.That's why I pledged on day one to rescind every single illegal and unconstitutional executive action taken by Obama. It's why I've pledged to instruct the Department of Justice to open an investigation into Planned Parenthood, and prosecute any and all criminal violations. It's why I've pledged to end persecution of religious liberty in the executive branch.It's also why I've pledged to instruct the Department of Education on day one that Common Core ends today.Using legitimate executive power you can end many of the abuses of Obama if you just have a president willing to use that power.The second avenue of executive power to change the direction of this country is foreign policy. It's why I've pledged on day one to rip to shreds this catastrophic Iranian nuclear deal. And, on day one, to begin the process of moving the American embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. Both of those are foreign policy the president can do immediately. And it's worth remembering that this same nation, Iran, released our hostages the day that Ronald Reagan was sworn in.And, then the third avenue to change the direction of the country is legislation. Legislation is not easy with this broken Congress. I'm running on two big legislative initiatives. Number one repealing every word of Obamacare. And, number two, adopting a simple flat tax and abolishing the IRS.Now, neither one of those are easy. I'm not remotely naive, or pollyannish. Could I get those done in this Congress? No. But, think about the last time we beat the Washington cartel. It was 1980, it was the Reagan revolution.Remember, Reagan in 1976, primaried Gerald Ford. You want to make Republican leadership loathe you, come within an inch of beating the incumbent Republican president in a primary. You think they dislike me? They hated Reagan with the heat of a thousand white hot suns. He was unlikeable.And, yet, what did Reagan do? In 1977, 1978, 1979, he didn't fly to Washington, sit down with the old bulls and say, come on guys, let's stand for something. He know that wouldn't work. Instead, he took the case to the people, he built a grassroots army. The Reagan revolution swept in.And, when you go to the people it transformed the incentives. Today, everyone's a Reagan Republican. You cannot find a Republican who will not swear that Ronald Reagan is tattooed somewhere on their body.But, the reason is he took the case to the people, and he changed the incentives. How do we abolish Obamacare, repeal Obamacare, and adopt a flat tax? We make the election a referendum so we come out of November 2016 with the mandate from the people. And, that's exactly what I intend to do.Hi, Susan.That is a very good question. I would say it would be a three way tie between Secretary of State, Secretary of Defense, and Attorney General. And, I think all three are critically important.Listen, State and Defense - when it comes to defense we need to start rebuilding our military immediately. When it comes to State, we have abandoned our friends and allie nationally and we need to - it's part of the reason I mentioned before.Ripping to shred the Iranian nuclear deal, and moving the American embassy to Jerusalem. Both of those are within the power of the president, but they're also powerfully symbolic. You know, moving the embassy to Israel tells Israel, it tells all of our allies, it tells our enemies, America is back. You know, Obama in his opening weeks, he sent back the bust of Winston Churchill to the United Kingdom. If I'm elected president, Winston Churchill is coming back to the Oval Office.So as secretary of state we need someone strong, someone who defends this country, someone who represents this country.Look, I'm not in the position right now to be naming cabinet appointments, but I'll tell you, a secretary of state in a Cruz administration would be someone like John Bolton would be someone who is strong, who defends this country, who stands our by our allies and stand up to our enemies.And then looking at attorney general, attorney general, the lawlessness of he Obama administration has been one of the saddest legacies. And you know one of the most revealing aspects - I mean, Anderson, if you watch reporters in Washington, off the record, you get them at the bar having a couple drinks, and you say, is Hillary Going to be indicted? Inevitably the answer they give you is they say, well, it depends on if the Obama White House decides they want to throw her overboard. It they decide politically they want to keep her, then no, she won't be indicted, and if they decide they're done with her, she will.Now how sad is it that the media accepts as a given that whether someone is prosecuted under the criminal laws depends on what some political hack in the West Wing thinks.You know, I used to be an associate deputy attorney general at the U.S. Department of Justice and I spent five-and-a-half years as solicitor general in the state of Texas. La enforcement and the administration of law is critically important. And I give you my word that the attorney general in my administration will be blind to party or ideology. It will not be a partisan position. Instead the only fidelity of the Department of Justice will to the laws and the Constitution of the United States. That's the way it's meant twork.I guess not.I'm a scotch fan.Look, back when I wasn't running for president I would watch TV. I used to remember what that was like. I'm a huge movie buff. I love movies. I like video games.One of the things - if you asked my wife, if you asked Heidi what drives her crazy about me the most, it is my iPhone. If she could fling my iPhone out the window and int the trash, she would be thrilled, because I'm on my iPhone. I'm playing Plants versus Zombies or Candy Crush.My girls love it. I mean, we'll sit there, the three of us, playing the iPhone and Heidi wants to, like, throw something at all three of us.Oh look, I mean, part it have is you've got to have fun. You know, a lot of times I get the questions in town halls - how do Republicans reach young people? And in answer to that, part of it is substance. We've got to make the case that the Obama economic agenda is hammering young people. For seven years young people come ou of school with economic stagnation They can't get a job. They don't have a future. Obamacare is a massive wealth transfer from young, healthy people to everybody else.And the national debt is hammering young people.But part of getting young people is having fun, loosening up. You know, would it kill the Republicans to crack a joke?Actually some of them I think it might.So, look, I'll give an example - it's - impersonations is part of that. It's just sort of having fun. But you know, I'm reminded of a few years back I was out in L.A., traveling out there. And the week before I arrived these posters began appearing all over town. And they're posters of my head on a shirtless torso that is ripped.And it's covered with tattoos, a giant eagle on my chest, two six shooters on my abs, which are a perfect eight-pack. Winston - you sound less than convinced.Winston Churchill on my right bicep which is massive, a cigarette dangling out of my mouth, and above it, the legend "black listed and loving it." Now, we had nothing it did with these posters. This was a local street artist in L.A. that just put them up on his own, but we decided to have some fun with them. So we posted on FaceBook, we said, "Well, for whatever reason, these posters started appearing all over Hollywood. I have to say I noticed a glaring error. I don't smoke cigarettes."Anderson, thank you.