Hi, Chuck.Hi. How are you? Hello, hello. 
It's great to see you too. 
Thank you.
Well, the way I look at it is this. I did oppose Justice Alito and, as you say, Chief Justice Roberts, because after meeting with them, listening to them, I did not believe that their judicial philosophy and approach was one that would be the best for the country.So I did. I spoke against him. I voted against him. But we had a process. You know, the nomination was made. And we went through the process. And what the Republicans today are saying is you can't vote on anything. We don't want the president to send us a nominee.I think that is very different. And what am I saying is, number one, the president has the right and obligation under the Constitution to send forth a nominee. And the Senate has an obligation under the Constitution to decide whether to approve or not.That's very different than on the floor of the Senate making your argument.But that's the way the Senate operates. You get to have a vote. You get to use the rules, and Harry Reid is sitting here, he's an expert on the rules, a master on the rules, and you get to use the rules.That happens a lot. And so, you know, I'm not in the position that the president is right now trying to talk some sense into the Senate Republicans to actually do their constitutional duty.But once a nominee goes to the Senate, then you go through the process. There should be hearings both from the nominee and other witnesses. Then it should be presented to the floor. And then you use the procedures that are available.And eventually, as you know, Justice Alito was confirmed.
Right.You know, I think that it's important for Democratic voters to take a hard look at all the candidates, and in this case obviously Sen. Sanders and myself, and to evaluate who's got the best plans. Who's got the most experience? Who's ready to do all parts of the job on day one, not only being president but being commander-in-chief?And I think it's fair for voters to also take a hard look about where we are and what we need to accomplish in order to have the kind of progress that I'm advocating. I am a progressive who likes to make progress. And I know how hard it is.So I don't want to make promises I can't keep. I don't want to tell people something that's not on the level. I want people to actually hold me accountable for what I say and what I present. And then you know they get to make their decisions. So we'll see what happens.I have a number of differences with Sen. Sanders. And we've been laying those out in the campaign. And we're going to continue to do that.Look, I think because this is one of the most difficult dilemmas that we're faced with. Of course law enforcement has every reason to want to get information off of a killer's cellphone. One of the San Bernardino killer's cellphones that they can't open, they're asking for help.Apple, understandably, is worried about opening the door, creating what they call a backdoor into encryption that would not just have to field requests from the United States government, but from the Chinese, Russian, Iranian governments.This is a very hard dilemma. And what I keep calling for is to try to get the government and our great tech companies to figure out what is the path forward?Because I don't know what this judge is going to do in this case. I assume that it'll be appealed. It's going to have lots of ramifications. But I see both sides. And I think most citizens see both sides. We don't want privacy and encryption you know destroyed. And we want to catch and make sure there's nobody else out there whose information is on that cellphone of the killer.So this is why you need people in office who can try to bring folks together to find some common ground. That is exactly what I would do.And I'm well aware that the government has its needs. Obviously Apple and the other tech companies are concerned about this. But as smart as we are, there's got to be some way on a very specific basis we could try to help get information around crimes and terrorism.That's what I said.It's a legitimate dilemma.I am not a tech expert. I'm not -- you know, I'm not telling you what can or should be done. I'm just describing to you the very difficult dilemma that we're caught in, and really making a plea that the government and the tech companies keep working together to see that there isn't some legitimate way to help deal with these kinds of very real world problems that we face.Well, he was the president who created 23 million jobs, who raised incomes for every group in America, not just those at the top. In fact, African- American families, Latino families had an even higher than average increase in income, created some great economic development programs like you know the Empowerment Zones and the New Market Tax Credits.So you know, I know that Sen. Sanders has also attacked President Obama. He's called him weak. He's called him disappointing. He tried to get somebody to run against him in the 2012 election in the primary.And you know I just don't know where all this comes from because maybe it's that Sen. Sanders wasn't really a Democrat until he decided to run for president.
He doesn't even know what the, you know, last two Democratic presidents did... 
And I'm -- you know, well, it's true. It's true. You know it's true. I mean, it happens to be true. And I've go to tell you, I look at our last two Democratic presidents, were they perfect? No, no person is.But I'll tell you what, I would take the two of them over any Republican any time, anywhere.Yes.That's good.We like a good contest.And we also like the facts. The facts are our friends, so let's talk about them.Hi.Well, back then it was a state-by-state determination, and I'm happy that most states have moved in the right direction, but what we've got to do now is get the comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship.And I understand that somebody asked Senator Sanders a question because her husband was in Mexico -- I don't who asked that question. And I want to tell you, I will end the three and 10-year bar provision so that you do not have to face that ever again.Right.Well, when we both had a chance to vote on comprehensive immigration reform in 2007, the bill that Senator Ted Kennedy championed, I voted for it; Senator Sanders voted against it. So I know how important it is to put together a coalition.
If I'm fortunate enough to get the Democratic nomination, I will immediately begin working on the priority legislation that I want the Congress deal with right away, and immigration reform will be among those issues.Now for me the way that Congress works, and I think my friend Congresswoman Marcia Fudge is here somewhere.There she is. Thank you.The way that the Congress works, there are a bunch of committees, and the committees have different jurisdiction. So if you're dealing with immigration reform you go to one committee, if you're dealing with equal pay for women you go to a different committee.So what I want do is get my priority legislation ready to go, begin working even with Democrats in the Congress during the general election. I also want to do that for nominations, because I want to get the judges I want to appoint, I want to get the other important officials appointed.So I'm not going to waste a minute. That's why I want to get this nomination as quickly as possible so I can gets to work on being your president.And I'm so sorry about that. And you know what, it does have to be done legislatively. I would do it on two paths. I would do it on a separate piece of legislation and part of comprehensive immigration reform, but we've got to get rid of it, because you know, I met a young dreamer. She was brought her when she was seven months old. She has a younger sister who's a citizen. Her father is a legal resident. Her mother is undocumented.
Her mother cannot leave their family for three or 10 years to go back to where she came from, leaving her family and her daughters alone to wait until she can get in line to be able to come back. It makes no sense. It breaks up families. It is burdensome. We're going to end it. And I'm going to do everything I can to get it ended as soon as possible.Absolutely. And we're going to introduce legislation, Jose. We are actually going to introduce legislation. I'm going to call everybody on the committee, Democrats and Republicans, alike, Gary.Yes, yes, I'm going to introduce my priority legislation and this is at the top of that list. It's going to be introduced. And then I'm going to work as hard as I can to make sure that we get it moved through the Congressional process.I can control the introduction of legislation, but the Congress has to get its act in gear. That's why we need to elect a Democratic Senate, so we've got some friends who will actually move the legislation.Right. Right. 
Well, that's why I support the president's executive orders on DACA and DAPA. And I will do everything I can to make sure that they are kept in place. As you know, there's a court action challenging them. I don't know what's going to happen now, because of the Supreme Court situation.But I will renew them. I will go further if it's at all legally possible. And I will make this a big political issue because we need to keep those young people working, going to school, being productive members of our society.So I have to tell you, I will do what I can as president. I'm hoping if we win back the Senate and we win the White House again, the Republicans are going to see the error of their ways and quit using immigrants to divide our country and quit taking the kind of mean-spirited actions that they do.You know, I was the first person to call out Donald Trump. I said, "Basta!" enough of this prejudice and paranoia and the kind of language that he uses.So I will do everything I can not only for the young people who deserve the highest protection, but for their families, as well.Oh, well, first, let me -- let me really express my deep appreciation to Pope Francis. He has talked about immigrants and migrants everywhere in the world. He came to our border to talk about it again. And I really appreciate him doing that, because I hope people will begin to understand that we've got to show our values. We need to provide humane treatment.So here's what I believe.Number one, we need to end family detention. I've been saying that for a very long time.We need to close the private family detention centers that are making a profit off of housing family members.We need to make sure that every child has due process and is guaranteed counsel. I have advocated that. Again, I thank Senator Reid because he now has introduced legislation to make that the law.So there is a process. We have to follow the process.But at the same time, we don't want children being handled by smugglers and traffickers, often being abused and mistreated. So there is a way where we need to take care of and provide total legal due process, including counsel, to children who get here.But we need to do more to help families back in Central America have a better life, get rid of the violence that stalks them so that they don't live in fear.Well, the children themselves need to be taken care of. They are children. They should be given every help that we can. And I think we're doing a better job of that than we were.Well, let me say this. I'm happy to release anything I have when everybody else does the same, because every other candidate in this race has given speeches to private groups, including Senator Sanders.But let me get to the heart of your question. I was the candidate who went to Wall Street before the crash. I was the candidate who went to them and said you are wrecking our economy. What you are doing with mortgages is going to bring us down.I called to end the carried interest loophole for hedge fund managers. I called to reign in CEO pay. I now have the most effective and comprehensive plan to deal with the threats that Wall Street poses, and I go further than Senator Sanders does because I want to go through after all the other bank bad actors.The bad actors like hedge funds, the bad actors like AIG, the insurance company. Like Countrywide mortgage. I take a backseat to nobody in being very clear about what I will do to make sure Wall Street never crashes main street again. And, that you can count on.
You know where I stand, because I've been in the public eye the whole time. But, let me say something about this.You know, I, like many Americans, have evolved. And, I'm glad I have. I am a 100% supporter...And I am absolutely adamant about protecting marriage equality. And, I think it's significant that the Human Rights campaign, the leading organization in our country to ensure that the LGBT community has the rights they deserve, have endorsed me.Now, your candidate said, well, that's because they're a member of the establishment. Well, with all due respect, they fight against the establishment every single day, and I've been with them for years, and I will pass the Equality act too.Thank you, thank you, thank you.Well. I know how hard hit Nevada was. I think the highest rate of foreclosures? You still have a lot of houses underwater, meaning that, you know, the value is not equal to what you had to pay for it, and what the mortgage principal and interest are.I take that very seriously, so here's what I want to do. I want us to move in any way we can in the federal government to help relieve the burden of already existing homeowners. I don't want the kind of wave of foreclosures that struck this state ever again to happen. ]Secondly, we want to provide more help so that more homeowners, hispanic homeowners, African American homeowners, those who want to be, have access to better credit, and better support.You know, credit has tightened up in ways that are just not fair, you know? You are three times more likely to be able to get a mortgage if you're a white applicant than if you're black or hispanic, even if you have the same credentials, and you're presenting it to the people who are looking at it.That has to end. I will go after that kind of discrimination and bigotry with everything I've got using every housing authority, the Justice Department, the U.S. attorney. We're not going to have this kind of bigotry.You know, I'm running to knock down all the barriers that stand in the way of people getting ahead. So we're going to make that possible.And, of course, we've got to get incomes up so you have more of a chance to save for that down payment, and you have got a better chance to actually get in a home and stay there.So I'm going to use every tool at my disposal to make that dream a reality again.
Yes. And I'm telling you, if you were not Hispanic, you would not have had as many hoops. That has to end. It's not right and fair.So important. And the first thing we have to do is prevent the Republicans ever from privatizing it. They are still determined to privatize Social Security.You know, Harry remembers after Bush got reelected in 2004, the first thing he said was, let's go privatize Social Security. I was one of the leaders in the Senate, with Harry and others.We went around the country. We made it clear we would never let that happen. And you know what, their whole plan was, their plan was to give the Social Security trust fund to Wall Street. Imagine that.
If you thought we had scandals and collapse before, think of that. That will never happen on my watch.But here's what will happen. We need to get more money into the Social Security trust fund to keep it solvent far into the future. There's a couple of different ways I'm looking at and I'll have to talk with the Congress to try to figure out what's the best way forward.We can raise the cap and get more money that way. We can go after -- with the existing percentage that comes out of people's paychecks, we can go after what's called passive income so that rich people have to pay on all their income, not just their earned income, because, frankly, they live mostly off of, as you know, capital gains and investment income.So we're going to come up with the best plan to do that. But here's what else I want you to know. We have too many Social Security recipients right now who are barely making it. And that's largely because, number one, they were low wage workers during their lifetime.They didn't put that much into the fund so now when they need it, they're capped out. They don't get what they need to live on.We also have a problem of older women who may not have worked at all during their lifetimes. They took care of their homes and their families. They contributed to their communities. So they don't have much to draw on either.And then one of the saddest problems I'm going to go after is what happens when a husband dies and then a widow loses half of her Social Security payment. If she's not making much to begin with, I've met a lot of these women, they're losing their homes, they are just really in financial distress.So we're going to get it more solvent and we're going to fix some of the problems of the people who are most in need. And that's what I'll do as president.Yes.That's one of the options, Jose. You know, that's why I said... 
Yes. Well, it could be over 250. It could be from 120 up. It could be at a higher amount. But this is the kind of issue that you've got to try to figure out where the Congress might be. So I've laid out a number of different approaches to get the money.And the other one that I mentioned to the gentleman is putting the -- you know putting the percentage on passive income so that people with a lot of income, but from capital gains and from investments who now, you know they don't pay much into Social Security, but they have a lot of money, they will have to pay more.So those are a couple of the options. I think we could pick one or more of those. But the goal is to get more money into the trust fund.No. And I'll tell you why, Chuck. No. 
I'll tell you why. Right now if you look at who draws Social Security for the longest time, people who have worked hard for many years, people who are often really broken down by the physical labor or the repetitive labor that they've done. Their lifespan is much lower than the lifespan of people like you and me who had a different sort of life, made our monies different ways, didn't have to work that hard.
So right now the average death age for a lot of Americans and Latinos and African-Americans is lower than the average death age of whites. And that's lower still than the age of people who are affluent and well educated.So raising the retirement age would very well eliminate a lot of hardworking people from getting much Social Security at all. I will not do that.I want people to have the best possible older years. So that is ruled out to me.Well, first of all, I know that you think, with good cause, everything is messed up because that has been your personal experience. I have the deepest respect for, and feeling for young people who literally came out of the great recession ready to get on with their lives, and are finding barriers everywhere they turn.I believe with all my heart that I'm the best person to be the president who will deliver for you.I've actually been in elective office shorter period than Senator Sanders, who's been in the Congress 25 years. I've been there for eight, but I've also been a Secretary of State, and I was a very big activist my entire life.And, I know what has to be done, and I will do it. That's why I've laid out plans to remove the economic barriers that stand in the way of young people. You know, I want to stop bad actors from doing bad things, there's no disagreement there.But, I want to make some good things happen. I want to get back to the kind of job creation we had when my husband was president, and get incomes rising because Americans haven't had a rise in 15 years. I want to be sure that we knock down the barriers that hold back people because of racisim, sexisim, homophobia, all the other kinds of prejudice and bias that is out there. I also want to be sure women get equal pay for work.I think it's way past time, and we deserve it.And, I have a very specific plan to make college affordable, and I also have a really aggressive plan to get student debt down to enable you to repay, refinance at a much lower cost, and be able to get out of it sooner.So, you're not paying, your student debts 30 years from now. That's ridiculous. I didn't have to do that, I had student debt, and I got it paid back within 15 years because I had it at a reasonable amount. And, I want to move more young people to what are called contingent repayment plans. That's a mouthful but it basically means you pay as a percentage of what you earn, not a fix interest rate. I want to triple the number of national service jobs. I want to double the amount of education grants that go to do national service. So, I have a comprehensive plan.And I think it's really important for young people to understand yes, you know what, we've got to have big, bold plans. We've got to have our ideas and our values. And then we got to figure out, OK, how are we going to get it done?How are we going to make it happen?I am absolutely confident I can do that. That's why I'm asking for your vote and your support.I couldn't hear you, Chuck.Yes.Yes.Well, look. You know I won one, he's won one. We've got 48 to go. That's why we're here in Nevada working as hard as we can. And then onto South Carolina and all the other states that come after.
You know look, I am absolutely focused on delivering results for people. And any fair reading of what I've done since I went to work as a young lawyer for the Children's Defense Fund up until today shows that I know how to do that.It is obviously troubling that people have questions about me, which I will do my best to answer. But I think they really come down to saying well look, you know like this young woman asked me. You've been around a while. We've seen your face a long time.What does that actually mean?Well, I've been around doing stuff. I've been around getting things that I believe will help people. And that's what I'm going to keep doing.You know when I ran for the Senate in New York people said the same thing, you know we can't trust her, we don't know her. I won. And then when I ran again six years later, I was reelected with an even larger percentage of the vote because people saw me in action.So people are really asking is she in it for herself or is she in it for me? I've always been somebody who believed and raised in my family and my faith that I, with my blessings, had an opportunity and an obligation to do what I could to help others. And that's what I will do as president.I will do everything I can to make sure that it does. And you know I want to make that possible. I hope I can do it without legislative action. But I might not be able to and he might not be able to. So that's why comprehensive immigration reform is so important because that would clear all this up.
 So I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that the young people I met -- you know I met a young woman who wants to be a doctor. She came here as a child undocumented. She's at the top of her class here in Las Vegas.She's worried can she get into school being undocumented? Can she get the scholarship she and her family would need? Can she graduate and go to medical school? And when she gets her medical degree can she get a license? I tell you that is just heartbreaking to me.So I'm going to do everything I can to clear all the barriers away so that every young person in this country has the same chance to make a contribution as that young woman wants to make.Yes. Yes. And you know I think both Sen. Sanders and I are seeking the same goal, to make college affordable for everybody. I believe my plan is a better way to get it done. And therefore I'm standing behind it. And I am strongly in favor of clearing away all these barriers.So yes, anything I can do to make sure every single young person who wants to go to college in this country is given the chance to do it. It's also why I want to make community college free. Because if community college is free then a lot of young people can actually go to community college without a lot of the assistance that they might need for a four-year college or a university.Right.Absolutely true, Jose. And I'm very proud of all the states that have taken steps to make sure that grants and college tuition and other things are taken care of for DREAMers, for others who are undocumented.But it should be a national priority. And that's another element of comprehensive immigration reform, because once we get that, then there are no more questions. Everybody is entitled to the same rights and benefits.You know, I'm not sure everybody in the audience even knows, I mean, every year undocumented workers contribute $12 billion to the Social Security trust fund.And the best estimate -- the best estimate is that under comprehensive immigration reform that amount would go up to 20. It would be an additional $20 billion every year.So you talk about making the Social Security trust fund solvent, getting people out of the shadows, getting them in the economy to be able to pursue their dreams helps all of us. So absolutely we're going to head for that.That's right. They contribute for everybody else, like the gentleman's question. I want you to be able to contribute and as a citizen be able to draw it down because it's yours.Right.
Well, can I tell you... The answer to that is yes. And it's why all the unions have endorsed me. And I want to tell you including...But most of the other unions have, public unions, private sector unions. And you know why? I mean, really, here we go. Let's go back to the facts, because I've always been a champion. I've always been there for them.Tom Perez, our great secretary of labor, who is here, where is Tom? Right there, is somebody who has been on the front lines standing up for workers and unions. He endorsed me. He has been campaigning for me. So I know that there's a lot of stuff that is said and thrown around.But look at the facts. Unions have endorsed me because they know I'm on their side. I'm not just showing up at election time telling them what they want to hear. I've been there year-in and year-out, and I will be as president.
Absolutely. You know, I support a federal minimum wage and I support states going higher than the federal minimum wage. That's why I support Andrew Cuomo in New York who wants to raise it to 15. I supported what they did in L.A. And I supported what they did in Seattle.But I'm standing with the majority of Democrats in the Senate who have introduced a minimum wage increase to $12. That would put it at the highest it has been since 1968. That would mean a wage increase for 35 million American workers, and one in four low-wage workers who are now just barely getting by.And it would help so many women because the majority of minimum wage workers are women. So I'm absolutely in favor of it. I will do everything that I can. We'll set it because it's a floor. And then I will use the bully pulpit to convince states that believe they can go further to do just that.Well, you know, I went to Beijing in 1995 and said women's rights are human rights and human rights are women's rights. And I believe that with all my heart.When I was Secretary of State, I put women's rights at the center of our foreign policy. And, I went to 112 countries for all of you, I raised it in every country. I looked across the table at dictators, and authoritarians and shovanists, and sexists, and misogynists -- yeah, I did.
And, I raised it with every one of them. So, it will be a huge issue for me. And, you know? I also raised gay rights. I went to Geneva and I made a speech about how gay rights are human rights because the people who are often the most depressed and mistreated right now in a lot of countries are LGBT members. So, from my perspective, human rights always has to be at the center of who we are as a nation, and what I will do as president. You can count on that.Yeah.Well, I know that the President intends to raise human right issues. He will be very open about that, I'm sure. Talking about, you know, the ongoing abuses within Cuba that are visited upon people who are seeking freedoms, standing up, speaking out.I think having the President on Cuban soil delivering that message is very powerful, and I'll say too, Chuck. You know, I was determined as Secretary of State to try to get an opening to Burma, now called Myanmar. And, a lot of people said, well, you know, that'll never happen. The military dictatorship will never change, and I said, you know what? We got to try.And, so I went, and I made, you know the case for why it would be better for them to pursue democracy and freedom. And then, I took the President back with me. And, the President spoke out, he spoke to a big group of students in Rangoon, Yangon, and said you deserve better. Speak out for it, speak up for it, the United States will support you.Look what's happened? There was an election. Aung Song Suu Kyi's party won. The military is turning over power.Now, we can't promise that in everything, but if we don't take reasonable steps, we negotiated a long time to try and get the opening to Cuba. So, I think the President's goal is to make it clear to the Cuban people, we're with you today, tomorrow, and into the future. We know you deserve a future of freedom and democracy, and we will be there every step of the way.What?You know, I think it's a different situation because there's so much traffic now between the United States and Cuba. There are so many Americans, both Cuban-Americans, and other Americans coming to, yo uknow, look at new businesses. Looking to make a alliances with people in their professions, or similar interests.So, I think it's not just a presidential visit. It is a punctuation point that makes clear the United States is going to stay with this. We're going to keep pushing, you know?I don't think the Castros can live forever, unless they have found Ponce DeLeon's magic water fountain somewhere. So, there will be a new generation, and we've got to -- you know, I want the president to be able to look in the eyes of the new generation, just like we did with the Burmese. We need to say, OK, we're here. What are you going to do for your people? Look how far behind you are.
I mean, the economy in Cuba is stuttering because they're not part of the larger world. Let's lift it up, and open it up.Oh my gosh, it's over?Thank you. Thank you, thank you.