Great to see you.How are you?Good to see you.I am great.
No, I don't think that's what Secretary Clinton is actually talking about. If she happened to come to one of my rallies, I — which she has not yet, but I welcome her, she would hear me speaking for about an hour and a half, for an hour and 15 minutes. And we would cover 15 or 20 separate issues. So I'm not quite sure where she comes up with this single issue idea.But do I believe that there has to be a major focus on the economy when the middle class is disappearing, when people in Nevada and all over this country are working longer hours for lower wages and almost all new income is going to the top 1 percent?Yes, I am going to focus on that.To answer your question about "Citizens United," why is that a litmus test to me?Because if we continue going the way we are going, Jose, in terms of a corrupt campaign finance system, you know what's going to end up happening?
A handful of billionaires are going to control the political life of this country and undermine American democracy and what men and women have fought to defend.So to me, this is a underlying enormous issue.Oh, but that's not — I think that's not what she is talking about. I think she is talking, actually, about my focus on Wall Street.But if you are asking me, do I think we have got to overturn this disastrous "Citizens United" Supreme Court decision so that billionaires will not be able to pump unlimited sums of money into super PACs and buy elections, man, I do believe that is an enormously important issue.I'm on both. This is -- it's a very complicated issue. And here's what the issue is. Cook has very important point to be made.I am very fearful in America about big brother. And that means not only the federal government getting into your emails or knowing what books you're taking out of the library, or private corporations knowing everything there is to know about you in terms of your health records, your banking records, your consumer practices. I worry about that very, very much.On the other hand, what I also worry about is the possibility of another terrorist attack against our country. And frankly, I think there is a middle ground that can be reached.Clearly all of us would be very dismayed if we learned that we could've picked up information about a potential terrorist act and we didn't do that. People would not feel good about this.So I think there has got to be a balance. But count me in as somebody who is a very strong civil libertarian, who believes that we can fight terrorism without undermining our constitutional rights and our privacy rights.One of the reasons the president has been able to move so far to the right is that there is no primary opposition to him. And I think it would do this country a good deal of service if people started thinking about candidates out there to being contrasting what is a progressive agenda as opposed to what Obama is doing.That was in response to a question on a radio show.Well, you know by the way, there is one of the two Democratic candidates here who actually ran against Barack Obama. It wasn't me.
All right.Second of all, you know I have worked very closely with President Obama over the last seven years. He is a friend of mine. And we have gone a long way together to move this country forward from the disastrous position we were in when Bush left office.When Bush left office we were losing 800,000 jobs a month and the world's financial system was on the verge of collapse. And I applaud President Obama and Vice President Biden for the work they did. And I worked with them.But to answer your question, do we have a right to have differences of opinion with President Obama? I have had another. For example, I have disagreed with him very strongly on his views on trade. He is for the TPP. I am against the TPP.He has several years ago continued Bush's tax breaks for the very wealthiest people on this country. I was on the floor for eight-and-a-half hours in disagreement with him.Overall, I think the president has done an outstanding job. And the idea that there can be a primary where different ideas get floated and debated, I don't think that that is terrible. 
Look, this is a media issue. This is one thing I said on one radio show many, many years ago. Media likes that issue.Bottom line is I happen to think that the president has done an extraordinarily good job. I have worked with him on issue after issue.Well, let me just, again, I was asked to comment on Bill Clinton's very, very strong criticisms of me. Chuck, put it into context. It wasn't that I went around attacking Bill Clinton.All right. It was Bill Clinton has been on the campaign trail making some very nasty comments about me. And I was asked about that.So I happen to think Bill Clinton did a pretty good job as president. But let's be clear. I happen to think that our trade agreements from NAFTA through TPP have been a disaster. NAFTA was pushed through by President Clinton.I fought very hard against the deregulation of Wall Street. Wall Street put billions of dollars in order to get deregulated so that large insurance companies and investor banks, the commercial banks could be merged together. I thought that was a bad idea. That was part of what the Clinton administration was pushing.In terms of so-called welfare reform, that legislation ended up increasing extreme poverty in America for the poorest children in this country. I spoke out against that. I thought that was scapegoating some of the most vulnerable people in this country.Overall, do I think Clinton did a good job? I do. But those are three areas where I disagreed with him. But let me just be very clear, if anybody thinks that a member of the United States Senate or the United States House has to agree with somebody in his own party who is president, well, you know, all of the time, that is not my understanding of democracy.And let me just -- if I might, just say this as I see Harry Reid. The people of Nevada, I believe, are going to miss Harry Reid for all of his enormous accomplishment.As well, the people of the United States. It is tough to be a Democratic leader. We are progressives. You have got more conservative people. Senator Reid has kept that coalition going. This country owes Harry Reid a real debt of gratitude.Well, I voted for immigration reform in 2013 because it was a much better piece of legislation. I voted against the legislation in 2007 in agreement with groups like LULAC, one of the large Latino organizations, in agreement with the AFL-CIO, for a number of reasons.But I will tell you one of them, included in that legislation was a guest worker provision which organizations saw as almost akin to slavery. Guest workers came in, and if they didn't do what their bosses wanted them to do, if they didn't accept exploitation and cheating, then they're going to be thrown out of this country.And many of those workers were terribly, terribly exploited. And that was the major reason that I voted against that. I don't want to see workers in this country exploited. But I did vote for the 2013.And let me say this, more importantly, I want to take 11 million undocumented people in this country out of the shadows, out of the fear that they are experiencing every single day. I want Congress to do its job.Under Senator Reid, we did pass comprehensive immigration reform. Unfortunately the House did not. As president I will do everything that I can to pass immigration reform and a path toward citizenship for those who today are undocumented.Of course. 
 Look, it's not that I didn't think it was perfect. You know, it's not a question of being perfect. Nothing is perfect. That was -- had particular egregious provisions in it.I'll tell you what I would do. What you just described is unacceptable, and should not be happening.My immigration policy is to unite families, not to divide families. When I was here in Las Vegas a couple of months ago I heard a story. A young man who was in the United States military. While he was in the United States military his wife was deported. Can you believe that?Clearly those not the policies that I want to see, and I will change those policies.That I can't tell you. 
I can't, you know -- we will use our executive office and power as much as we can. Hopefully we'll have the cooperation of the United States congress.Well, I was the former Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, and in that capacity I did all that I could to expand healthcare and provide the benefits that our veterans are entitled to. What you are describing to me seems to me to be an outrage. If people put their lives on the line to defend this country, are willing to die for this country, I don't think you deport those people.I'm sorry, I didn't hear that question.If somebody is a violent criminal they should be deported.But, as I said a moment ago, my own view is that our policy as a nation, what I believe, is we should unite families, not divide families. We should not be sending people back to a country that they could barely remember, and a language they may not be able to speak.It is our top priority.I'm not a dictator here. It has to do with a little bit of cooperation from the Congress. But, it is a major priority when you have 11 million people living in the shadows. I think we owe it to them to move as expeditiously as we can.If congress does not act, I will continue to the President's, President Obama's efforts to use executive powers.Hey, anybody here supporting me? 
Alright.Just wanted to make sure, Chuck.Well, I would suggest that you go to my website, BernieSanders.com, which has a very, very extensive program regarding the issues that you talked about. So, let's talk about it.Alright, we got more people in jail today in the United States of America than any other country on Earth, 2.2 million people, largely African American and hispanic. We spend $80 billion dollars a year to lock people up. Make any sense to anybody? Not to me.Alright, so what do we have to do? We got to do a lot of things. Is there a connection between economics and people ending up in jail? Well, let me tell you something. Today, do you know what the youth unemployment for African American kids is? It is 51 percent.And sometimes kids get into trouble when they don't have jobs.So you know what I think?We're going to invest in education and jobs, not more jails and incarceration. 
Number two, every person in this country, I hope, black, white, Latino, is disgusted when we turn on the television and we see videos of unarmed people, often African-Americans, being shot, OK?We need real police reform in this country. Police departments are run by local departments. Federal government can play a major role.So what we have got to do is make it clear throughout this country that if a police officer breaks the law, like any other public official, that police officer will be held accountable.We have got -- we have got to dramatize local police departments so they do not look like occupying armies. We have got to make police departments look like a diversity of the communities that they are serving.There is a whole lot that has to be done and I would love to continue to discuss it. But please, you know, we're in a campaign and the Secretary will say what she'll say. I was arrested when I was 22 years old at the University of Chicago.You know what I was arrested for? Fighting segregation.So I have this issue and I know that I date myself when I tell you that in 1963, I was there in Washington for the March on Washington, for the March on -- on Washington for jobs and freedom with Dr. Martin Luther King.This has been something that I have felt strongly about my entire life.Well, what I believe is President Obama has made significant progress. We're going to build on that progress. We can always do better. And the progress that we can build on is to understand that we should not have 35 percent of African-American kids in this country living in poverty.We need real police reform. We need to make sure that when people are in jail, often, African-American and Latino, there is a path back -- back to civil society so that we don't have the rates of recidivism that we do right now.We have got to do away with mandatory minimum sentences. And I'll give you one example where we can make huge progress.Right now, it turns out that the African-American community and the white community smoke marijuana at about equal levels, OK?But it also turns out that blacks are four times more likely to be arrested than whites for possession of marijuana, OK?And that is why I believe that we should take marijuana out of The Federal Controlled Substance Act. Too many lives have been destroyed. Too many young people have been -- incurred police records for possession of marijuana.I consider myself a strong feminist. And, in fact, Gloria Steinem -- everybody knows Gloria is one of the leading feminists in America -- made me an honorary woman many, many years ago.I don't know exactly what that meant, but I accepted it when she came to campaign for me.Look, right now in this country, women are making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men. Minority women, women of color, are making substantially less. African-American women are making 54 cents on the dollar.This is absurd. This has nothing to do with economics and it's everything to do with sexism. I will fight as hard as I can. And I've worked with Harry Reid. We have tried desperately to pass pay equity for women. I will continue that fight.OK. Here's where we are right now.We have a federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour. That's where we're at. You can do the arithmetic as well as I do. Multiple that number, or multiply $9.00 an hour or $10 an hour 40 hours a week, 50 weeks a year. And you know what? You come up with a sum, with an income that nobody can live on and certainly cannot bring up a family on.All right. So here is my radical idea. You ready for a radical idea?All right. My radical idea is that in America if somebody works 40 hours a week that person should not live in poverty. All right? That's the radical idea. I believe we should raise the minimum wage to a living wage, and that is $15 an hour over the next several years.And I am proud to tell you I have been on picket lines with fast food workers in Washington, D.C. and elsewhere. And these people deserve an enormous amount of credit for their courage. And we are making real progress.Cities now like Seattle, Los Angeles, San Francisco are beginning, have passed legislation to raise the minimum wage over a period of years to $15 an hour.Bottom line is in America today we have massive levels of income and wealth inequality. Rich are getting much, much richer. Top 20 wealthiest people in America now own more wealth than the bottom 50 percent of America, 150 million people.What my campaign is about is saying we are going to have an economy that works for working families and not just the top 1 percent. One part of that is to raise the minimum wage to a living wage, $15 an hour.Prices — look, the truth is yes, you may end up paying a few cents more for a hamburger at McDonalds. But you will be, if you're that worker going from $8.00 or $10 an hour to $15 an hour, you're going to be a lot better off.And I'll tell you something else. We have 47 million people living in poverty today. We have people who go to emergency food shelves who work 40 hours a week, but they're not earning enough money to provide for their family.When we put money into the hands of working people, you know what, when that happens they can go out and buy products. They can go shopping. And when they do that, they create jobs.So instead of giving tax breaks to billionaires and thinking that's going to trickle on down, my view is you put money into the hands of working people who spend it and then create more jobs.Let me answer it in this way. And this is something I feel very strongly about.Hundred, 150 years ago very brave Americans fought for the concept of free public education. And what they were saying is you know working class kids, low-income people, their kids have a right to get free education. It shouldn't just be available to wealthy families. Their kids shouldn't have to work in factories or on farms. Huge achievement.And what public education has been in this country from day one is saying free education for the first grade through grade 12. That's great. But you know what? The world has changed.Today in 2016 in many respects a college degree is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 or 60 years ago in terms.But you know what? The world has changed. Today in 2016, in many respects, a college degree is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 or 60 years ago in terms of going out and getting a good job.I believe that today when we talk about public education, it should include free tuition at public colleges and universities. That's what I believe.And why that is a revolutionary idea, my parents, my dad came to this country from Poland, immigrated here, dropped out of high school. My mom never went to college.There are millions of kids in this country who today, because of their economic circumstances, never believe they're going to be able to make it to college.What I want is for every child in America, regardless of the income of his or her family, to know that if they study hard, take school seriously, yes, they will be able to get a college education.All right. Now to answer -- you raised a very good question and your number was exactly right. The other thing that I want to do is lower student debt in this country. Millions of people are being crushed with high student debt.Every place I go, $50,000, $100,000, $300,000 going to medical school. We are fighting for both of those provisions. Now, you're right. It will cost $70 billion a year. It's a lot of money. It's a lot of money.How am I going to pay for it? I'll tell you how I'm going to pay for it. When Wall Street's illegal activities helped destroy this country, and hit the state of Nevada probably harder than any other state in this country, you know what happened? Congress bailed out the illegal behavior on Wall Street.Well, you know what? Wall Street is doing OK now. I think that we should impose a tax on Wall Street speculation. It is Wall Street's time to help the middle class of this country. That will raise all the money that we need.
Well, thank you very much.Your point is well taken. Everybody thanks the veterans, but sometimes after they come home we have a tendency to forget about them, and the struggles that they go through. I was chairman of the veterans committee for two years, and in that capacity, passed in a bipartisan way, the comprehensive veterans health care legislation passed in the modern history of this country.And, we also did some other things in that legislation.To answer your question, we've got to do a number of things. In other words, we have to give a priority in terms of federal employment. And, second of all, what we have to do which we do not do enough is people in the military develop a lot of really good skills, you know? Whether it's driving a truck, or doing whatever it may be, being a paramedic. We have got to make sure that the skills that they have acquired in the military are transferable to the civil society.So, in other words, in the civil society you work three years, you know, and then you go to another job. You get credit for those three years. Often that's not the case in the military.So, we got to prioritize making sure that the federal government and the private sector hire veterans who often, by the way, are very, very good workers. Very good workers because of the discipline they have -- incurred in the military. There's a lot to be done, but the bottom line is when people put their lives on the line to defend us we have got to protect them in every way that we can.Well, guess what? The Koch brothers and many of their allies do precisely want to privatize the VA. That's what they want to do.
Do you think -- and I believe, along with the American Legion, the VFW, the DAV, the Vietnam Vets and virtually all of the veterans' organizations, that that is a pretty bad idea because veterans have their own special health care needs based on their service to this country. I will fight to protect and preserve the Veterans Administration.Now as it happened, as I just mentioned, under my leadership, with the support of Senator Reid, we managed to pass the largest and most comprehensive VA health care legislation in the modern history of this country, approximately $17 billion. What we did is put billions of dollars into the VA to precisely address the issue of waiting lists.Now it's good for some people to say well there's a problem. But we addressed the problem.Why was there a waiting list? There was a waiting list in Phoenix and many other parts of this country because there were not enough doctors, not enough nurses, not enough medical personnel. And we addressed that issue.And we addressed a number of other educational issues. We brought many, many new health care facilities, community-based outreach clinics around this country.So I apologize to nobody for my work as chairman of the VA. We made significant progress in improving health care and expediting benefits for the veterans of our country, who deserve, by the way, the highest quality health care we can provide.That's good. Yes.Thank you.Yes. I do.Bluntly and directly.You know, this country, this country's greatness relies on the reality that throughout our history we have welcomed people into this country. As I mentioned, my dad came from Poland at the age of 17.People can disagree about immigration and immigration reform. I believe we need comprehensive immigration reform taking people out of the shadows. But it is absolutely unacceptable to me that in the year 2016 we have people like Donald Trump and others who are trying to gain votes by scapegoating people who may be Muslims or people who may be Latinos. That is unacceptable.This country -- this country has struggled too much for too many years.And by the way, I am appalled. You know people can agree with Barack Obama. You can disagree with Barack Obama. But anybody who doesn't understand that the kind of obstructionism and hatred thrown at this man, the idea of making him a de-legitimate president by suggesting he was not born in America because his dad came from Kenya.No one asked me whether I'm a citizen or not. My father came from Poland. Gee, what's the difference? Maybe the color of our skin.
So I promise you, I promise you -- you know, what motivates me is what Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said. You remember what he said? He said we have got to -- paraphrasing. We have got to judge people based on their character, not the color of the skin, not the country that they came from. That's the America we have got to fight for.And all of us together have got to say no to xenophobia. And to racism and to bigotry of all forms.And, by the way, thank you so much for being in our country, for practicing medicine and for helping your fellow human beings.Well, I probably know more about that issue than any human being in the United States of America. 
You know, when I became mayor of the city of Burlington, I had to take on Democrats and Republicans and so forth. Your point is well taken. I chose to run, proudly, in the Democratic primary and caucus process and I look forward to winning that process.But clearly, as a nation, I think we flourish when there are different ideas out there, when there are more differences of opinions.If you go to Europe, for example, there are many, many political parties. And what happens in this country is sometimes the two party system makes it very, very difficult to get on the ballot. If you are a third party. And I think that that's wrong.I think we should welcome competition, welcome different ideas. And I think the two parties should be open to making sure that people have a fair shake if they want to run on another party.OK.As a nation, when we talk about the political process, nobody in this room, no matter who you're supporting, should be proud that we have one of the lowest voter turnouts of any major nation on earth. Nobody should be proud that we have Republican governors and legislatures who are working over time trying to suppress the vote.
 We want to make it easier for people to vote, not harder for people to vote, which is what many Republican governors are doing.Yes.Sure.Sure. When I talk about democratic socialist, you know what I'm talking about?Social Security, one of the most popular and important programs in this country, developed by FDR to give dignity and security to seniors. And it has been enormously successful at reducing poverty among seniors.When I talk about democratic socialist, I am talking about Medicare, a single payer health care system for the elderly. And in my view, we should expand that concept to all people. I believe that everybody in this country should be entitled to health care as a right. And the most effective way to do it is through a Medicare for All single payer program.When I talk about democratic socialist, I'm not looking at Venezuela. I'm not looking at Cuba. I'm looking at countries like Denmark and Sweden.And you know what goes on in those countries?All of the kids who have the ability and desire go to college. And you know how much it costs?It is free. They have child care systems which are outstanding. They have public educational systems which are extremely strong. The retirement benefits for their elderly much better than they are in the United States.The bottom line is, when I talk about democratic socialist, what I mean is moving away from where we are right now. As a member of the Senate, let me break the bad news to all of you. We have a Congress right now which is dominated by Wall Street and big money interests.What I mean is moving away from where we are right now. As a member of the Senate, let me break the bad news to all of you. We have a Congress right now which is dominated by Wall Street and big money interests.The members of Congress are not worried about the people making nine bucks an hour. They're not worried about the kids who can't afford to go to college. They're not worried about people who have no health insurance.That's not their worry. Their worry is getting campaign contributions from very, very wealthy people and providing tax breaks for those who don't need it.So in one sense, Jose, we're not talking about Venezuela, we're not talking about Cuba. We are talking about the concept, which I don't think is a radical idea, of having a government which works to represent the needs of the middle class and working families rather than just the top 1 percent.Wonderful. Very important question which is very rarely discussed.Every psychologist who studies the issue understands and has told us that the most important years of human development intellectually and emotionally is zero through four.In this country today we have millions of working families, mom goes to work, dad goes to work. They don't make a whole lot of money. They are desperately searching for quality, affordable child care. And all over this country, including my own state of Vermont, it is hard to find.So to answer your question, number one, when we look at the instructors, the educators who work with the little ones, you know what, their work is as important or more important than college professors.We have got to rethink how we deal and treat the youngest and most vulnerable among us. The idea there today, and I have talked to these workers, we have child care workers who are making $8, $9 an hour, who have no health insurance, who are not making a career of the important work they are doing.What other countries are doing and what we must do is say taking care of the littlest ones is one of our major priorities. To do that we need a well-trained, well-educated, and well-paid workforce.
 And this means changing our national priorities. My Republican colleagues want to give hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks to the top 0.2 of 1 percent. Not me. I'm going to tax the wealthiest people and the largest corporations.And we're going to use some of to money to provide quality child care for all working families and make sure that those who work with the little kids are well- paid and well-trained.Well, Chuck, let me answer your question...But let me answer your question.You know, the insurance companies and the drug companies and their mouthpieces, they go around in telling us how terrible health care is all over the world. All these terrible waiting lines.And yet when they do international studies and they ask people how they think and how they feel about their health care system, you know what, the United States is often down below many of these countries on much higher levels.We are the only country in the industrialized world that doesn't guarantee health care to all people. I've been criticized for saying it, let me say it again. I believe health care is a right of all people.I will fight for are much higher levels.
We are the only country in the industrialized world that doesn't guarantee health care to all people. I've been criticized for saying that. Let me say it again. I believe healthcare is a right of all people. I will fight for a medicare for all, single payer system.Second of all, alright. You want to talk about rationing (ph), you got 29 million people in this country who have no health insurance. How's that for rationing (ph). They can't got to the doctor. And, then you got even more who are under insured with high deductibles, and high copayments.I have talked to doctors who have told me that people walk in the door extremely sick, and the doctors say, why didn't you come in here six months ago when you first felt your symptoms?And people said, "I had no health insurance," or, "I had a high deductible".Chuck, some of those people die, or they end up in the hospital. You want to talk about rationing, that's rationing. To answer your question. We spend almost three times more per person than the people in the U.K., 50% more than the people in France.We can have a world class healthcare system without waiting lines, spending the same amount of money we're spending right now.Well, let me answer in -- I just indicated to you. If, for example, there are systems, you're right. Where if you needed a knee replacement, or something like that, you might have to wait for that. But, when you're sick you go into the doctor when you need to go.My point is, Chuck, there's massive rationing in America. It is rationing based on money. If you don't have money, and you don't have insurance, and you don't have -- you have a high deductible, and you don't go to the doctor when you should. One out of five Americans today cannot afford prescription drugs their doctors write. What do you define that as?Other countries around the world make sure that the people have the medicine they need. When one out of five people can't afford those prescriptions, man I call that rationing. We can do a lot better than we're currently doing.I don't have to explain to you, or I hope anybody in this room, or anybody watching the outrageous way, unfair way, that governments have treated Native Americans from day one. It is a disgrace.Number two, I will -- you know, you're raising issues in terms of extraction of fossil fuels, for example. I believe that climate change is one of the great challenges facing this planet, and what I have introduced legislation to do, by the way, it to say that we will not extract fossil fuels in the future from any public lands.Number three, I understand that it is absolutely important that the federal government do much more than it is now doing to work with the native american community in preserving their heritage, and their way of life. And, I will do everything I can to bring that about. Thank you.Well, it goes without saying that human trafficking, you know, taking girls, or young boys and doing horrible things with them is something that we have got to do everything that we can do stop. And, I will do everything that I can to stop trafficking. Taking girls or young boys and doing horrible things with them is something that we've got to do everything that we can to stop. And I will do everything that I can to stop it.In terms of making sure, as I understand your question, that people do not come into this country, let me back up and say that I believe, given the humanitarian crisis in Syria and the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan that the United States and the rest of the world have got to make sure that refugees can get their lives together. And that we should welcome those people in the United States, along with other countries around the world.But when we do that we have got to make very sure that the vetting process is strong, that people who we welcome into this country to help do not do terrible things to our own people.
Well, you do that by having a much stronger security approach to vetting people who are coming in, to knowing what their background is, to making sure that they have not been involved in terrorist activity. And there are a variety of ways that you can do that. But that is what we've got to do.Right. That's something that we have to address. I agree with you. It is a very serious concern.