Hi, Chris. How are you?Yes.And my wife told me to button my coat but I think I'm too fat, so I'm going to keep it like this.Chris, our message has resonated much faster, much further than I thought it would.And I think what the American people are perceiving is there is something very wrong in this country when ordinary Americans are working longer hours for lower wages when we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country on earth, and almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1 percent.And then on top of that, people see that that rigged economy is sustained by a corrupt, and I use that word advisedly, a corrupt campaign finance system that allows billionaires today to spend as much money as they want through Super PACs to elect the candidates of their choice. And, all over this country, and it's not just Democrats, i is conservatives, it is Republicans, that are saying that is not what America is supposed to be about.So, if you're asking me why is it that our campaign has created the kind of momentum that it has, I think we are touching a nerve with the American people who understan that establishment politics is just not good enough. We need bold changes, we need a political revolution.President Obama is obviously right. Being president is an enormously difficult job. It's a job that entails dealing with a million different issues. I think I have th background, I think I have the judgement to do that.I would remind you, and remind the viewers that in 2002, when George W. Bush and Dick Cheney said we should go to war in Iraq, Bernie Sanders listened very carefully and I said no. I think that war is a dumb idea. I helped lead the opposition to that war.And, if you go to my website, listen to what I said, and sadly enough - it gives me no joy. Much of what I feared would happen did happen. I do believe I have the background for the job.Well, what Democratic Socialism means, to me, is that economic rights, the right to economic security is - should exist in the United States of America. It means to me that there's something wrong when we have millions of senior citizens today trying to get by on $11, $12,000 a year Social Security. It means there's somethin wrong when the rich get richer, and almost everybody else gets poorer. It means there is something wrong, and government should play a role in making sure that all of oukids, regardless of their income, are able to get a higher education.Which is why I'm calling for free tuition at public colleges and universities, and why we have to deal with this horrendous level of student debt that people are having.Now, what's going on in countries around the world, in Scandinavia, and in Germany. The ideas that I am talking about are not radical ideas. So, what Democratic Socialis means to me in its essence is that we cannot continue to have a government dominated by the billionaire class, and a congress that continues to work for the interest of thepeople on top while ignoring working families.What this campaign is about, and what I believe, is creating a government that works for all of us, not just a handful of people on the top. That's my definition of Democratic Socialism.Well, I think people will support my medical - Medicare for All program because the United States today is the only major country on Earth that doesn't guarantee health care to all people as a right.Now, I'm on the committee that wrote the Affordable Care Act, and I think the Affordable Care Act has done a lot of good things.But yet we have 29 million people without any health insurance. Your point is there are seniors today - and I meet them every day - who cannot afford the outrageously high cost of prescription drugs because in America - everybody should know this - we pay, by far, the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.Last year, while one out of five Americans cannot afford the prescriptions their doctors write, last year, the three major drug companies made $45 billion in profit because they spent hundreds of millions of dollars on lobbying and campaign contributions.So I believe we should draw in the rest of the world. I believe, as a principle, everybody should be entitled to health care as a right, comprehensive health care.And, by the way, if we move toward a Medicare for all, not only do we cover the needs of all people, including that gentleman, we will save middle class people thousands of dollars a year on their health care bills, because now we pay, by far, per capita, much, much more than any other country on Earth.It is time, in my view, for us to have the courage to take on the insurance companies, take on the drug companies and provide health care to all people at an affordable cost.But, Chris, that is an unfair criticism for the following reason. If you are paying now $10,000 a year to a private health insurance company and I say to you, hypothetically, you're going to pay $5,000 more in taxes - or actually less than that, but you're not going to pay any more private health insurance, are you going to be complaining about the fact that I've saved you $5,000 in your total bills?So it's demagogic to say oh, you're paying more in taxes. Let's also talk about we are going to liminate - eliminate private health insurance premiums and payments not onl for individuals, but for businesses, as well.Again, we are the only country on Earth that allows private insurance companies to rip us off. We spend three times more than the British, 50 percent more than the French We can do better than we're doing right now.Yes, we will raise - we will raise the - we will raise taxes, yes, we will. But also let us be clear, Chris, because there's a little bit of disingenuity out there, we may raise taxes but we are also going to eliminate private health insurance premiums for individuals and for businesses.Good.Sean, great question and a very fair question.And I start off with the premise that in the last 30 years, although my Republican friends don't like the term, there's been a massive redistribution of wealth in this country. It's gone from working families, trillions of dollars, to the top one tenth of 1 percent.So, yes, what this campaign is about is to say to profitable corporations who, in some years don't pay a nickel in taxes, to the wealthiest people in this country who sometimes have an effective tax rate lower than truck drivers or nurses, yes, you are going to start paying your fair share of taxes.Now how am I going to pay to make certain that public colleges and universities are tuition-free and we substantially lower interest rates on student debt?I pay for that because we're going to ask Wall Street to pay a tax on speculation. We are also believing, I believe that after the working families of this country bailed out Wall Street, maybe it's their time to help the middle class of this country.Now, I believe that we have an infrastructure that is crumbling. That's roads, bridges, rail, airports, levies, dams. We all know what's happening in Flint, Michigan. Water systems, wastewater plants.I believe that if we end this absurdity of allowing corporations who make billions of dollars a year in profits to stash their money in the Cayman Islands, Bermuda and othe tax havens, we eliminate that, we're going to bring $100 billion into the Treasury. That money goes into rebuilding our infrastructure, creating 13 million jobs in five years with a trillion dollar investment.I have paid for all of our proposals.Alright, we got to put what I am doing in context. And, here's the context. Today in America we have more income and wealth inequality than we have had since 1928. There has, Chris, been a massive transfer of wealth, I'm talking about trillions of dollars, from the pockets of working families into the hands of the top one- tenth of one percent. That's a fact.So, if you are telling me that at a time when - Wall Street's recklessness, greed and illegal behavior brought this country to its knees, than I am going to say to them that they're going to have to start paying their fair share of taxes. Fine, if that's the criticism I accept it. I demand that Wall Street start paying its fair share of taxes.Again. I believe, and you know, Iowa has played a very interesting role in the fight for public education. And, for a 100 plus years, what we have believed public education to be is up to the twelfth grade. Free public education up to the twelfth grade. Guess what? The world has changed.A college degree today is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 years ago. People want to criticize me, fine. I believe that every kid in this country who has th ability and the desire should be able to get a higher education regardless of the income of his family. And I will pay for that through a tax on Wall Street speculation.The era of protecting the middle class, and working families is certainly something that I will make happen. I believe, for example, that when my Republican colleagues talk about cutting Social Security, I say that when you're living on $12,000 a year in Social Security, no, we shouldn't cut it. We should expand Social Security. And, we do that by lifting the cap on taxable income.So, Chris, this is what I think. When we live in a nation of so much income and wealth inequality, where the top one tenth of 1% owns as much as the bottom 90%, when the 20 wealthiest people own more wealth than the bottom half of America, that is not, to me, what the American economy should be about. So, yes. People want to criticize me, OK. I will take on the greed of corporate America and the greed of Wall Street, and fight to protect the middle class.Great question. Let me answer it, if I might, in two ways.I am probably the most progressive member in the U.S. Senate. But, I have over the years, not only in the Senate, but in the House, worked with Republicans when there was common ground. When I was in the House, in a number of years I got more amendments passed on the floor of the House working with Republicans than anyone else. That was number one.Number two. In the Senate, just a couple of years ago, in a dysfunctional congress I worked with people like John McCain, people like Jeff Miller over in the House, to pas the most comprehensive Veterans Health Care legislation in the modern history of the United States of America.I have worked with Republicans when there is common ground throughout my career. But, this is what I also want to say. But this is what I also want to say. In my view, you have a Congress today that is much more worried about protecting the interest of the wealthy and the powerful and making sure they get campaign contributions from the wealthy and the powerful.If we are serious about rebuilding the American middle class, if we are serious about providing paid family and medical leave to all of our people, if we are serious about ending the disgrace of having so many of our children live in poverty, the real way to do it is to have millions of Americans finally stand up and say, enough is enough, for people to get engaged in the political process, to finally demand that Washington represent all of us, not just a handful of very wealthy people.That's the way you bring about real change.Give me a shot here, Alexis.Now what I said, what I said on a television program, and I did not say it well, is that sometimes the base of an organization looks at the world a little bit differently than the leadership.So if you have 100 percent Planned Parenthood voting record, 100 percent pro-choice voting record, there are people who are asking, why is the leadership not either supporting Bernie Sanders or why are they, you know, opposing him?And my point is that I will fight - these are great organizations. I met with Planned Parenthood. They do a fantastic job not only in defending women's rights in general, bu talking about sexuality in America.They are a fantastic organization. Count me in as somebody who strongly supports them.So this was simply a question of endorsement policy, not whether or not I strongly support these organizations. Do I have your vote yet?I know. I'm just kidding, but that is the difference. I support the organization.And of course, I understand that.But I think if you look at my record in terms of fighting for women's rights, I think there are very few members of Congress who have a stronger record. It's 100 percent lifetime, and I've been there for a while.In addition to that, you know, there have - as you know, women are making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men. That is nothing but old-fashioned sexism, and I am a strong advocate and will fight for pay equity for women.I believe that - and it's not only women, although it impacts women and women of color even greater, this level of pay inequality, inequity, is extraordinary. So we're goin to fight for pay equity, make sure that everybody earns the same amount for the same work.Also, what we have got to do is people cannot make it on 8, 9, 10 bucks an hour. We have got to raise the minimum wage in this country to a living wage. That will impac all people. It will impact women more than men as we raise the minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour.Well, one more point, one more point, Chris. I'm trying to win her vote. Leave me alone here.All right. Hillary Clinton and I have a disagreement on a very important issue that impacts everybody, but especially women. I believe that we should expan Social Security benefits by lifting the cap on taxable income.That will help millions of low-income seniors, especially women. Ask Hillary Clinton if she's prepared to lift the cap on taxable income.Thank you very much.